CERIAS Tech Report 2013-9

Crude Faux: An analysis of cyber conflict within the oil & gas industries

 by Kambic, K., Aurthor, K,. Ellis, W., Jensen, T., Johansen, K., Lee, B., Liles, S.

Center for Education and Research
Information Assurance and Security

Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2086

Crude

Faux

An Analysis of cyber Conflict

Within the Oil & Gas Industries

Authors

Abstract

Jake Kambic, Kristine Aurthor, Will 
Ellis, Mary Horner, Tyler Jensen, 

Kyle Johansen, Brian Lee

Under the direction of

Dr. Samuel Liles

Purdue University

   Cyber Conflict & Transational

   Cyber-Crime Course

1

The  oil  &  gas  industry  is  a  mul-
tibillion-dollar  industry  that  has 
a  history  of  conflict.    As  modern 
technology  has  developed,  both  the 
corporate aspects and technical as-
pects of the oil & gas industry have 
become  heavily  reliant  on  the  Cy-
ber domain. The inherently insecure 
origins  and  evolution  of  computing 
has  led  that  dependence  to  become 
a severe vulnerability. This report 
examines  how  these  vulnerabilities 
have  been  exploited,  and  what  that 
means to the future of the industry.

Executive Summary

The	oil	&	gas	industry	is	a	multibillion-dollar	industry	that	has	a	history	of	conflict.		As	modern	technology	

	
has	developed,	both	the	corporate	aspects	and	technical	aspects	of	the	oil	&	gas	industry	have	become	heavily	
reliant	on	the	Cyber	domain.	The	inherently	insecure	origins	and	evolution	of	computing	has	led	that	dependence	
to	become	a	severe	vulnerability.	Recent	events	have	brought	this	fact	to	light	with	a	deluge	of	“cyber	attacks”	
launched	globally	against	the	industry.	These	attacks	raise	specter	of	cyber	conflict	and	the	question	of	culpabil-
ity.	This	report	seeks	to	analyze	a	selection	of	these	events,	looking	for	patterns	that	would	indicate	one	or	more	
advanced	actors.	By	observing	the	motives	means	and	opportunities	presented	to	actors,	and	looking	at	a	cross	
section	of	these	attacks	over	time,	conclusions	will	be	drawn	as	to	the	past,	present,	and	future	of	cyber	conflict	
within	the	industry.

The	US	Army	notes	in	their	Cyber	Concept	&	Capabilities	plan	for	2016-2028	that	cyber	capabilities	pose	a	unique	
and	attractive	opportunity	to	an	inferior	enemy	to	gain	equivalence	temporary	equivalence	with	a	superior	enemy	
through	the	use	of	Cyber.	This	applies	not	only	to	nation	states,	but	non-state	actors	as	well.	There	are	several	fac-
tors	compounding	this	issue:

	 Unfettered	access	to	the	infrastructure	and	tools	used	to	conduct	cyber	operations	by	anyone

	 A	low	barrier	to	entry	fiscally	and	limited	experience	required	to	achieve	an	outsized	impact

	 A	high	and	attractive	return	on	investment

	 Plausible	deniability	due	to	issues	with	attribution

These	facts	make	it	highly	likely	that	multiple	foreign	agencies	as	well	as	powerful	corporate	denizens	have	used	
and	continue	to	make	use	of	cyber	capabilities	to	affect	favorable	outcomes.	

Methods:	Using	OSINT	techniques,	information	was	gathered	from	government	websites,	corporate	websites,	
news	agencies,	and	search	engine	queries.	This	information	was	then	synthesized	and	scrutinized	for	possible	links	
and	attribution.	By	looking	at	the	surrounding	geopolitical	events,	gains	and	losses	as	well	as	indirect	outcomes,	
events	can	be	correlated	and	attributed	to	actors	which	possess	the	means	motive	and	opportunity	to	do	so.	The	
primary	purpose	is	to	analyze	the	event	regardless	of	attribution.	Because	of	the	nature	of	open	source	informa-
tion,	biases	are	naturally	introduced	which	must	be	acknowledged,	if	not	accounted	for.

Events:	Incidents	were	selected	based	on	relevance	and	their	timeliness,	along	with	other	factors	discussed	in	the	
methodology.	Incidents	were	largely	grouped	into	one	of	three	categories:	espionage,	sabotage,	and	incidental/
miscellaneous.	While	these	incidents	do	not	qualify	as	warfare	by	the	Clausewitz	definition,	they	are	a	form	of	
conflict.	

Cyber Espionage:	There	is	significant	evidence	of	protracted,	insidious	espionage	carried	out	by	a	state	actor	within	
the	cyber	realm.	China	has	likely	launch	hundreds	of	cyber	attacks	against	the	oil	and	gas	industry	since	as	early	as	
2002.	With	the	advent	of	Red	October,	they	may	not	be	the	only	actors	in	the	game.	With	a	level	of	sophistication	
not	yet	observed	publicly	in	this	realm,	Red	October	could	represent	an	evolution	to	China’s	current	techniques,	or	
another	actor	entering	the	game.	By	looking	at	some	of	the	technical	aspects	of	the	events,	a	link	was	established	
between	Byzantine	Candor	and	APT1,	as	well	as	a	possible	link	between	the	Mirage	Campaign	and	Elderwood	Proj-
ect.

2

Sabotage: The	Middle	East	has	scene	perhaps	the	most	evidence	and	variety	of	cyber	conflict	of	all.	While	staying	away	
from	events	which	do	not	directly	relate	to	the	oil	industry,	a	series	of	sabotage	incidents	using	cyber	as	the	medium	are	
examined.	It	is	possible	that	there	events	were	salvos	between	nation	states	in	an	example	of	bidirectional	conflict.	If	this	
is	not	the	case,	and	incidents	like	Shamoon	were	simply	the	act	of	non-state	actors,	then	it	represents	affirmation	of	the	
revelence	of	non-state	actors	in	future	cyber	conflict.	This	is	only	logical	since	most	of	America’s	critical	infrastructure	is	
controlled	by	the	private	sector,	and	economic	influence	can	be	leveraged	to	gain	great	power.

Incidental:	By	taking	an	adversarial	look	at	the	Deepwater	Horizon	oil	spill,	an	example	of	how	a	state	actor	could	act	in	
a	violent,	kinetic	way	against	a	non-state	through	cyber	while	remaining	anonymous	is	examined	through	a	vignette.	It	
is	determined	that	while	the	Deepwater	horizon	spill	was	not	an	attack,	it	easily	could	have	been.	This	type	of	conflict	is	
both	deadly	and	catastrophic,	and	while	it	is	unlikely	to	be	used	lightly,	it	sets	the	tone	for	possibilities	going	forward.

Conclusions:

Based	on	the	observed	events,	the	possible	threat	actors,	and	the	correlation	of	these	events,	it	appears	that	

there	is	ongoing	cyber	conflict	within	the	oil	industry.	The	correlation	of	several	incidents	has	shown	coordinated	attacks	
by	an	advanced	foreign	threat	actor	against	multiple	entities	with	the	use	of	espionage.	It	has	also	suggested	the	pos-
sibility	of	more	destructive	attacks,	and	pointed	out	the	benefits	to	both	state	actors	and	non-state	actors	within	the	oil	
industry.	In	some	cases	there	has	been	an	obvious	alignment	of	political,	strategic,	operational,	and	tactical	goals	and	
principals	to	affect	favorable	outcomes.	The	culmination	of	these	findings	is	that	there	are	many	threat	actors	who	are	
currently	engaged	in,	or	may	be	engaged	in,	ongoing	conflict	which	may	have	the	potential	to	escalate.	This	should	be	
both	a	primary	concern	and	a	cause	for	future	research	and	analysis.

3

Introduction

Recent	events	of	national	significance	within	the	oil	&	gas	Industry	have	brought	to	light	both	the	question	of	
defining	threat	sources	and	that	of	plausibly	attributing	known	events	to	a	threat	source.	The	unprecedented	rise	in	cy-
ber	events	begets	the	question	of	whether	this	is	incidental	to	the	continued	advancement	of	technology,	or	suggests	an	
ongoing	conflict	that	may	escalate.		This	report	will	aggregate	relevant	events,	present	criteria	for	outlining	threat	origins,	
and	determine	the	likelihood	that	the	incidents	are	related.	It	also	seeks	to	determine	whether	or	not	any	observed	cor-
relation	points	to	a	persistent	aggressor	or	simply	circumstantial	coincidence.	The	purpose	of	this	analysis	is	to	provide	
decision-makers	with	a	clearer	idea	of	the	current	security	outlook	for	the	oil	and	gas	industry,	and	pinpoint	what	current	
and	future	causes	for	concern	appear	to	be.	All	events	and	presented	options	should	be	considered	cautiously	and	as	
empirically	as	possible;	any	assumptions	that	are	made	will	be	explicitly	stated.

Timeline of Events

One	of	the	first	priorities	is	to	outline	a	timeline	of	events	which	have	occurred	and	then	examine	what	signifi-
cance	they	may	have	or	relationships	they	may	share	in	order	to	scope	the	conversation.	These	events	will	constitute	
the	frame	for	the	analysis.	Events	were	chosen	after	a	preliminary	overview	of	content	from	open	sources	such	as	
established	news	media	sites,	oil	&	gas	company	websites,	Google	query	results,	government	bulletins,	and	technical	
reports	by	security	companies.	From	this	brief	overview,	events	within	the	Oil	and	Gas	Industry	which	exhibited	a	“cyber”	
component	were	selected.	These	events	are	not	meant	to	be	all	inclusive,	and	due	to	the	entirely	open	source	nature	of	
the	resources,	the	vantage	point	on	the	information	may	be	biased	and	in	many	instances	is	likely	incomplete.	However	
even	an	incomplete	view	may	contain	enough	information	to	identify	significant	patterns,	and	by	acknowledging	the	
quality	concerns	with	the	information,	a	more	accurate	and	objective	analysis	may	be	performed.	Below	is	a	timeline	of	
observed	events	which	will	be	discussed	in	greater	detail.	The	timeline	will	list	the	event	and	the	apparent	target	of	the	
event.

4

Timeline & Details of Sampled Events

SA

RU

US

CN

JP

IR
AE
NG

IN
DE

Sophisticated infection and data ex(cid:31)ltrationin Iraq of corporate secrets suspected to be part of the Night Dragon campaign

Earliest known intrusion of Shady RAT in the Gas industry–sophisticated infection and data ex(cid:31)ltration of corporate secrets

A disgrunted former contractor for PER intentionally disables o(cid:30)shore oil rig safety controls remotely o(cid:30) the coast of California 

McAfee starts monitoring the Night Dragon cyber espionage campaign against oil, energy, and petrochemical companies

Symantec ties back a Google hack to a campaign referred to as the Elderwood Project that targets Oil/Gas targets amongst others

Deepwater Horizon Oil Rig su(cid:30)ers catastrophic failure; Control safety Systems had been rendered inhibited

BG Group Plc and CHK. are alleged to be victim of sophisticated data ex(cid:31)ltration of corporate secrets reported by Bloomberg

Talisman Energy & Halliburton Co. are targeted by the comment group as part of a corporate espionage campaign

Sophisticated infection and data ex(cid:31)ltration of corporate secrets from unspeci(cid:31)ed oil & gas companies in Norway

Virus infects a series control systems on Kharg Island, Iran’s main oil exportation station, causing them to shut down the terminals

Dell’s Counter Threat Unit begins tracking the Mirage cyber espionage campaign—Sophisticated data ex(cid:31)ltration of corporate secrets

Anonymous hackers target oil industry giants, exposing more than 1,000 email credentials

Shamoon virus systematically ex(cid:31)ltrates corporate data and wiped hard drives of over 30,000 computers at Saudi’s Aramco

Sophisticated infection and data ex(cid:31)ltration of corporate secrets from Telvent, ltd.

Virus infects a series control systems on Kharg Island, Iran’s main oil exportation station, causing them to shut down the terminals

Anonymous announces their intent to attack international oil companies in “#OpFuelStrike”

Kaspersky announces Red October, a highly (cid:29)exible cyber espionage virus which targets, amongst others, global oil & gas companies

Mandiant releases a document entitled APT1 which implicates China’s PLA sponsored espionage, including within the Oil Industry

5

The CSM highlights a “restricted” DHS report states 23 gas pipeline companies were targeted via spear-(cid:31)shing

1
2

3

4

5

6

7
8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

Cyber Espionage

Sabotage

Incidental/Misc

Signi(cid:31)cant Open-Source Cyber-Related Incidents within Oil & Gas Industries

[2008-2013]* 

0 MMbbl

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Top 20 Countries

Proven Oil Reserves

[2011]

211,169 MMbbl

20,000 MMbbl

2

4

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

Importers

Exporters

Top 5 [2011]

1

Given	this	data	set,	a	natural	escalation	of	events	appears	to	occur,	with	the	frequency	of	incidents	continuing	
to	rise.	This	can	partially	be	explained	by	a	growing	international	awareness	of	the	vulnerabilities	and	perils	involved	in	
internet-facing	control	systems	of	all	kinds;	as	events	occur,	they	garner	additional	attention	and	therefore	induce	ad-
ditional	incidents.	

However,	there	are	other	interesting	observations	to	be	made	from	this	data.	Largely,	the	incidents	of	great	note	

have	occurred	in	either	North	America	or	the	Middle	East.	When	considering	that	three	of	the	top	five	oil	producing	
countries	are	in	these	regions	(Saudi	Arabia,	the	United	States,	and	Iran),	this	is	not	surprising.	Yet	substantive	reports	
of	similar	incidents	are	markedly	absent	in	the	other	two	of	the	top	five	oil	producing	countries	(China	and	Russia),	and	
this	is	noteworthy.	The	argument	could	be	made	that	this	is	due	to	language	barriers	and	tight	control	on	information	
dissemination,	but	it	is	improbable	that	a	significant	incident	would	have	gone	entirely	unnoticed	by	all	media	outlets.	As	
the	incidents	themselves	make	apparent,	human	threat	actors	are	involved,	and	what	remains	to	be	identified	is	whether	
there	is	the	complexity,	overarching	coordination,	or	recurring	threat	source	that	would	point	to	an	advanced	threat	such	
as	a	state	actor	or	complex	non-state	actor.	

Before	continuing	with	the	possible	attribution	of	events,	some	base	discussion	and	criteria	for	the	threat	sourc-
es	must	be	established.	A	threat	source	is	considered	to	be	a	human-based	or	natural	entity	which	possesses	a	capabil-
ity	that	aligns	with	an	unmitigated	vulnerability.	The	threat	sources	which	will	be	considered	must	meet	the	minimum	
requirement	of	having	both	the	motive	and	the	means	to	carry	out	the	attack.	Once	a	hypothesis	consisting	of	these	ele-
ments	is	established,	it	will	be	scrutinized	to	determine	whether	or	not	the	events	surrounding	the	incident	or	series	of	
incidents	align	in	any	obvious	political,	strategic,	operational	and	tactical	manner.	The	means	in	this	case	consists	of	both	
the	opportunity	and	the	technological	capability	to	cause	the	incident	to	occur,	and	the	motives	that	will	be	considered	
are	economic	gain,	retribution,	or	political	agenda	(to	include	ideology).	

The	US	Army	notes	in	their	Cyber	Concept	&	Capabilities	plan	for	2016-2028	that	cyber	capabilities	pose	a	

unique	and	attractive	opportunity	to	an	inferior,	asymmetric	enemy	to	temporarily	gain	equivalence	with	a	superior	en-
emy	because	of	its	relatively	low	initial	cost,	high	return	on	investment,	and	plausible	deniability	due	to	issues	with	attri-
bution.	Because	of	this	fact,	it	is	highly	likely	that	multiple	foreign	agencies	as	well	as	powerful	corporate	denizens	have	
used	and	continue	to	make	use	of	cyber	capabilities	to	affect	favorable	outcomes.	The	rest	of	the	report	will	attempt	to	
substantiate	this	claim	through	critical	analysis.

6

Methods

To	reach	the	conclusions	presented	in	the	ensuing	report	incidents	were	collected	and	chosen	based	on	the	

	
inclusion	of	cyber	either	as	the	medium	for	the	event,	or	as	some	component	factor	that	played	a	direct	or	otherwise	
instrumental	role	in	the	outcome.	After	collecting	a	sampling	of	incidents	into	a	dataset,	these	incidents	were	examined	
and	several	directly	attributable	features/impacts	were	taken	into	account,	including:

	 The	victim(s)	targeted

	 Evidence	of	cyber	involvement

	 Economic	losses

	 Fatalities	incurred

	 Geopolitical	impacts

Beyond	the	direct	impacts,	it	was	also	necessary	to	consider	possible	indirect	“ripple”	effects.		For	example,	it	could	be	
important	to	consider	something	like	the	prices	of	crude	oil	prior	to	and	after	a	given	incident.		A	circumstance	may	be	
such	that	particular	companies	or	countries	unaffected	by	the	incident	would	find	themselves	benefiting	from	a	ripple	
effect	like	higher	crude	prices.		Other	effects	to	identify	include	changes	in	the	status	of	the	involved	companies	through-
out	an	incident.		This	could	involve	looking	at	earnings	reports,	the	selling	or	buying	of	assets,	or	any	legal	actions	the	
company	is	involved	in,	as	well	as	contextual	events	that	are	significant	or	contentious	and	occur	directly	prior	to	or	after	
an	incident.

Through	the	investigation	of	these	outcomes	and	contexts,	there	is	the	possibility	of	finding	correlations	be-

	
tween	various	incidents.		These	correlations	may	be	made	plain	by	observable	patterns	among	the	details	of	the	events.	
An	observed	pattern	may	suggest	a	recurring	actor—these	patterns	include	tactical	and	methodical	similarities	between	
alleged	attacks,	recurring	targets,	entities	that	directly	or	indirectly	benefitted	or	incurred	losses	as	an	outcome,	and	geo-
graphic	dispersion	or	closeness	of	the	events.		In	cases	where	an	attack	is	apparent,	tactical	elements	such	as	tools	were	
scrutinized	as	well,	as	a	means	of	attribution.		For	example,	a	tool	may	unintentionally	exhibit	cultural	tendencies	such	as	
the	language	used,	colloquialisms,	idioms,	religious	preference,	and	recurring	personal	habits	of	the	creator	or	operator.	
These	signatures	coupled	with	aspects	of	the	tactical	assets	like	exclusiveness	(as	in	the	case	of	a	purchased	domain	used	
as	a	C2	point)	can	significantly	raise	the	confidence	level	of	an	attribution.

Possible	actors	in	the	cyber	exchange	can	ostensibly	be	identified	from	these	correlations.		If	it	is	determined	

	
that	the	incident	was	an	attack,	motives	of	the	potential	actors	can	be	considered.	A	key	element	of	this	that	should	be	
considered	is	any	precedence	for	the	attack.		The	history	of	political	relationships	between	countries,	such	as	any	ex-
pressed	hostilities	or	allegiances	and	treaties,	may	also	prove	relevant.		History	also	tells	us	that	most	conflicts	arise	over	
the	acquisition	of	resources.	As	such,	the	energy	resources	and	requirements	of	nation-states	must	be	analyzed.		For	ex-
ample,	is	the	entity	being	examined	a	major	importer	or	exporter	of	oil?	Is	the	entity	capable	of	energy	self-sufficiency?	
Or	has	the	country	been	experiencing	a	major	influx	in	energy	demand?		This	information	can	then	be	aggregated	and	
synthesized	into	a	more	informed	view	of	the	event.

A	final	major	component	of	the	analysis	was	the	examination	of	whether	the	motives	and	methods	align	with	

	
the	actor’s	strategic	culture.	This	includes	defining	the	overall	strategic	theories	that	the	country	adheres	to	and	goals	it	
desires	to	accomplish.		As	mentioned	earlier,	the	tactics	employed	during	the	attack	can	be	incredibly	potent	as	an	attri-
bution	mechanism—if	an	attack	is	far	removed	from	a	nation’s	capabilities,	it	is	less	likely	that	they	were	involved	in	the	
incident.	Likewise,	if	the	tactics	are	within	a	given	nation’s	technical	prowess	and	follow	established	patterns	exhibited	by	
that	nation,	it	significantly	improves	the	confidence	in	attribution.	However,	caution	was	taken	when	attributing	tactics	to	
actors,	as	deception	is	a	common	element	in	many	cyber	warfare	strategies.		Therefore,	tactical	similarities	or	dissimilari-

7

ties	alone	do	not	implicitly	identify	or	rule	out	a	given	actor.

Biases

The	nature	of	OSINT	gathering	poses	obstacles	to	objective	analysis.	While	gathering	the	data,	it	should	be	

noted	that	there	are	source	biases.		All	of	the	sources	used	are	open	source,	and	as	such	the	provenance	of	the	informa-
tion	cannot	always	be	independently	verified.	The	information	itself	may	be	legitimate,	but	presented	in	an	incomplete	
or	skewed	manner.	It	is	also	likely	that	not	all	of	the	details	of	the	collected	incidents	are	available.		In	some	cases	the	
companies	reporting	the	incidents,	such	as	Symantec	and	MacAfee,	are	not	legally	disposed	to	divulge	select	information	
about	their	customers.		Another	limitation	is	information	available	about	incidents	that	occurred	in	foreign	countries.		
Due	to	tighter	control	over	journalism	or	language	barriers,	other	countries	are	likely	not	releasing	full	details	from	inci-
dents	that	have	occurred	or	not	doing	so	in	languages	familiar	to	the	authors.		In	some	cases,	entire	events	may	not	be	
released	to	the	public,	either	by	foreign	governments	or	the	companies	themselves.

	
In	order	to	address	the	above	concerns,	several	methods	were	used.		Data	was	gathered	from	established,	and	
ideally	trustworthy,	sources.		This	includes	reports	from	reputable	news	sites,	company	or	government	publications,	or	
scholarly	papers.		Also,	every	effort	was	made	to	track	down	the	original	source	of	the	information	found	in	reports,	or	
cross-examine	it	with	other	sources.		Multiple	sources	were	found	wherever	possible	and	scrutinized	in	order	to	obtain	
corroborating	data.		Of	equal	interest	is	information	which	was	contradictory	between	sources.	These	contradictions	
were	presented	and	addressed	where	appropriate.

Finally,	despite	evidence	found	in	support	of	any	given	actor,	alternate	hypotheses	must	be	considered.		As	with	

	
any	intelligence	gathering,	there	is	the	possibility	of	error,	whether	information	is	misreported	or	taken	out	of	context,	
and	this	is	especially	true	of	OSINT.		The	purpose	was	not	to	select	an	outcome	and	attempt	to	support	it	but	rather	to	
find	refutation	as	well.	Information	that	may	exculpate	a	particular	actor	was	thoroughly	considered.		Although	human	
error	is	common	in	cyber	incidents,	it	is	important	to	determine	whether	the	error	was	taken	advantage	of	by	others.

8

Cyber Espionage

One	of	the	most	easily	distinguishable	patterns	on	the	above	timeline	is	the	growing	frequency	of	reported	cyber	

espionage.	This	saga	of	long-term	campaigns	has	been	garnering	a	lot	of	attention,	and	with	good	reason.	Some	have	
asserted	that	certain	campaigns	have	existed	since	the	early	2000’s1,	yet	their	existence	has	only	recently	come	to	light	in	
the	private	sector.	The	damage	caused	by	these	types	of	breaches	is	difficult	to	estimate	because	it	occurred	over	such	a	
long	time	span,	but	in	some	cases	terabytes	of	data	were	stolen	over	the	period	of	a	few	months.2	When	taken	in	relation	
to	the	oil	industry,	where	proprietary	information	like	bid	exploration	data	is	the	lifeblood	of	the	organization,	this	can	be	
a	disastrous	blow.	However,	while	campaigns	like	“Night	Dragon”	are	pointedly	targeted	at	the	oil	industry,	others	are	far	
more	encompassing	in	their	breadth	and	appear	more	disparate.	

Establishing	a	baseline	or	pattern	within	this	industry	alone	excludes	a	large	and	potentially	useful	amount	of	
context.	Not	only	were	most	of	these	cyber	espionage	campaigns	larger	in	scope	than	simply	the	oil	and	gas	industry,	
but	some	also	completely	excluded	it.	Interestingly,	there	are	other	cyber	espionage	campaigns	not	listed	in	the	timeline	
(such	as	the	infamous	Flame	and	Mahdi	viruses)	that	target	countries	with	some	of	the	largest	oil	reserves	in	the	world,	
but	the	attacks	themselves	were	not	targeted	at	the	Oil	&	Gas	Industries.	

Given	the	sheer	number	of	incidents,	it	would	seem	likely	that	there	is	more	than	one	source,	yet	the	technical	

data	available	seems	to	suggest	otherwise.	It	is	clear	that	these	incidents	represent	a	huge	danger	to	the	profitability	and	
competitiveness,	even	the	future	success,	of	victim	companies;	Yet	these	consequences	carry	with	them	some	level	of	
inherent	attribution.	The	very	nature	of	proprietary	information	means	that	if	an	entity	who	had	acquired	it	were	to	use	
the	information,	it	could	identify	them	as	having	a	connection	to	the	incident,	whether	directly	or	through	a	third	party.	
Also,	attacks	of	this	scale	require	some	level	of	organization	that	manifests	itself	in	the	form	of	repeated	patterns	of	be-
havior	and	resource	usage	that	can	suggest	a	common	origin.	This	organization	coupled	with	the	resources	and	expertise	
necessary	to	process	and	analyze	the	exorbitant	volume	of	stolen	information	leads	to	a	high	likelihood	of	state	actor	or	
organized	criminal	involvement.

One	of	the	largest	difficulties	present	in	identifying	the	provenance	and	totality	of	these	attacks	is	that	there	is	
no	publicly	available	aggregation	of	the	body	of	information	collected	on	the	various	APT	activities.	Instead,	Antivirus	
&	Incident	Response	firms	which	have	the	best	vantage	point	on	the	situation	are	providing	separate	reports	in	which	
they	use	their	own	colloquial	names	and	terms	for	the	attacks,	the	tools,	and	the	campaigns.	This	creates	overlap,	where	
campaigns	with	different	names	may	in	fact	be	part	of	the	same	campaign,	and	the	technical	data	that	is	otherwise	
separated	across	the	reports	could	together	represent	a	more	apparent	pattern.	Only	one	report,	the	Mandiant	APT1	
report,	included	a	brief	table	noting	that	they	had	compared	some	of	the	other	attacks	and	ruled	out	APT1	as	the	culprit.	
Additionally,	these	firms	are	entrusted	with	the	safeguard	of	their	customers’	information,	and	so	often	will	not	release	
the	full	extent	of	what	was	found,	nor	a	definitive	list	of	victims	–	adding	to	the	obscurity.	These	sources	also	introduce	
their	own	biases	which	must	be	accounted	for.	

For	this	reason,	what	follows	is	an	overview	of	the	various	reports	that	mention	the	oil	and	gas	industry	as	

targets,	and	an	analysis	of	important	technical	aspects	and	goals	of	these	campaigns.	Through	this	analysis,	hopefully	
a	more	complete	view	of	the	action	may	be	obtained	to	see	if	the	goals,	resources,	techniques,	and	timeframes	exhibit	
commonality	between	attacks.

1 
2 

 Mandiant, APT1 (Feb 13, 2013). Retrieved from http://www.mandiant.com/apt1
 Ibid.

9

Oil/Gas Inclusive or Specific Campaigns

‘Countries affect’ lists only countries where oil and gas companies were compromised.

Campaign:	NightDragon
Synopsis:	The	NightDragon	report	released	by	McAfee	was	somewhat	of	a	seminal	event	in	
that	it	was	the	first	well	known	release	of	a	fairly	detailed	APT	analysis	and	technical	attribu-
tion.	The	attacks	conglomerated	in	NightDragon	were	nearly	all	conducted	against	unspecified	
“global	oil,	energy,	and	petrochemical	companies.”	The	attacks	followed	a	methodical	series	of	
steps:

1.	 using	SQL-injection	to	obtain	access	to	an	extranet	server,	or	using	spear-phishing	

against	“mobile	worker	laptops”	and	“compromising	corporate	VPN	accounts”	to	ob-
tain	access	to	the	company	intranet

2.	 uploading	common	hash	dumping	tools	&	password	cracking	tools	harvest	Active	

Directory	credentials	to	gain	access	to	sensitive	desktops	&	servers

Publisher:	McAfee
Published:	Feb	10,	
2011
Earliest Date: “[At-
tacks	have	been	ongo-
ing	for]	at	least	two	
years,	and	likely	as	
many	as	four”

Circa	2007-2009

3.	 Access	sensitive	documents

4.	 Upload	RAT	malware	to	exfiltrate	sensitive	data

5.	 Move	laterally

McAfee	was	also	able	to	identify	much	of	the	generic	malware	used,	and	communications	
techniques.	They	also	suggested	that	the	attackers	worked	between	9:00am	and	5:00pm	Bei-
jing	time	during	weekdays,	and	that	most	traffic	was	originating	from	the	Shandong	Province	
of	China.
Purpose:	Exfiltration	of	“competitive	proprietary	operations	and	project-financing	information	
with	regard	to	oil	and	gas	field	bids	and	operations”	&	collection	of	data	from	SCADA	Systems
Entry Method:	Social	Engineering,	Spear	Phishing,	SQL-injection
Countries with Companies Affected:	U.S.,	Taiwan,	Kazakhstan,	Greece

Campaign:	Elderwood
 Synopsis: Symantec	observed	a	group	it	refers	to	as	the	Elderwood	gang	operating	a	con-
certed	campaign	against	a	variety	of	industries	including	an	undisclosed	oil	and	gas	company.	
Symantec	also	asserts	that	these	are	the	same	hackers	who	operated	in	the	“Aurora”	cam-
paign	against	Google	in	2009.	This	campaign	is	unique	to	some	degree	in	that	it	used	a	high	
number	of	zero	day	exploits	in	Adobe	Flash	and	Microsoft’s	Internet	Explorer.	While	it	appears	
that	the	attackers	used	spear-phishing	(via	email),	their	primary	technique	was	the	use	of	a	
“watering-hole”	attack	whereby	they	attack	websites	known	to	be	frequented	by	the	target	
using	techniques	such	as	SQL	injection,	and	upload	malicious	files	to	these	website.	The	target	
then	visits	the	site	and	gets	infected.	This	is	interesting	because	the	target	does	not	have	any	
indication	that	it	has	been	compromised,	but	the	number	of	overall	infections	goes	up	because	
of	untargeted	victims	which	also	visit	the	site.	This	attack	requires	the	attackers	to	find	security	
vulnerability	in	the	desired	website	after	selection,	requiring	more	technical	skill	than	some	of	
the	other	campaigns	initially	exhibit.	Symantec	believes	that	the	exploits	were	packed	with	a	
Trojan	and	Command	&	Control	(C2)	server	address	using	a	platform	that	gives	the	group	its	
name:	“Elderwood.”
Purpose:	“the	wholesale	gathering	of	intelligence	and	intellectual	property”
Entry Method:	Watering-Hole	attacks,	Spear	Phishing
Countries with Companies Affected:	Undisclosed

10

Publisher:	Symantec
Published:	Sept	06,	
2012
Earliest	Date:	Decem-
ber	2009

Campaign:	ShadyRAT
Synopsis: This	report	released	by	McAfee	discusses	a	RAT	they	claim	to	be	incredibly	prolific,	
infecting	a	variety	of	industries	across	multiple	countries.	The	report	itself	is	very	sparse	on	any	
technical	details	or	evidence,	largely	lacking	substance.	It	provides	a	list	of	victims	by	industry	
and	their	country	of	origin.	It	also	provides	a	detailed	timeline	for	the	attacks.

Publisher:	McAfee
Published:	August	02,	
2011
Earliest Date: July 
2006

Interestingly,	Eugene	Kaspersky	heavily	criticized	the	report	for	being	alarmist	and	skewed,	
stating	that	many	of	the	conclusions	were	presumptive.	

Purpose:	Exfiltration	of	“a	historically	unprecedented	transfer	of	wealth—closely	guarded	
national	secrets	(including	those	from	classified	government	networks),	source	code,	bug	
databases,	email	archives,	negotiation	plans	and	exploration	details	for	new	oil	and	gas	field	
auctions,	document	stores,	legal	contracts,	supervisory	control	and	data	acquisition	(SCADA)	
configurations,	design	schematics,	and	much	more”
Entry Method: Spear Phishing
Countries with Companies Affected:	U.S.	

Campaign:	Mirage

Synopsis: Dell	SecureWorks	gives	a	fairly	good	collection	of	technical	details	about	the	cam-
paign	they’ve	dubbed	“Mirage”	for	the	string	used	to	connect	to	the	C2	server	by	the	Remote	
Access	Trojan,	but	largely	they	focused	on	studying	the	tool,	not	monitoring	the	APT	activity.	
Some	points	of	note	are	the	use	of	HTRAN	(a	relay	that	Dell’s	Cyber	Threat	Unit	asserts	was	
developed	by	the	Honker	Union	of	China,	or	HUC)	for	relaying,	and	registry	of	a	few	domains	
to	an	email	address	(dnsjack@yahoo.com)	and	IP	ranges	in	China.

Publisher:	Dell	Se-
cureWorks
Published:	Sep	18	
2012
Earliest Date:	April	
2012

Purpose:		Theft	of	“intellectual	property	and	company	secrets”
Entry Method:	Social	Engineering,	Spear	Phishing,	SQL-injection	of	web	servers
Countries with Companies Affected:  Philippines, Canada

11

Publisher:	Kaspersky
Published:	Jan	14,	
2013
Earliest Date:	May	
2007

Campaign:	Red	October
Synopsis: Red	October	is	a	sophisticated	espionage	network	very	much	unlike	other	attacks	
which	had	been	reported.	While	for	the	most	part,	the	targets	were	diplomatic,	there	were	
several	instances	where	Kaspersky	noted	that	oil	and	gas	industries	had	been	targeted.	The	
attack	used	domains	registered	to	Russian	email	addresses,	and	IP	ranges	identified	were	ser-
viced	by	largely	German	and	Russian	ISPs,	however	Kaspersky	believes	that	the	three	“mother-
ship”	C2	servers	identified	are	actually	themselves	proxies	for	an	as	yet	unidentified	C2	server	
which	could	then	be	operating	nearly	anywhere.	A	salient	point	is	that	Red	October	made	
use	of	exploit	code	that	was	“created	by	other	attackers	and	employed	during	different	cyber	
attacks.	The	attackers	left	the	imported	exploit	code	untouched,	perhaps	to	harden	the	identi-
fication	process.”	Additionally,	Red	October	is	somewhat	unique	amongst	attacks	that	targeted	
oil	and	gas	in	that	it	is	capable	of	stealing	information	from	a	variety	of	embedded	devices	
such	as	phone	and	routers.
Purpose:	“gather	intelligence	from	the	compromised	organizations”
Entry Method:	Social	Engineering,	Spear	Phishing,	SQL-injection	of	web	servers
Countries with Companies Affected:	Azerbaijan,	Belarus,	Turkmenistan,	UAE

Publisher:	Mandiant
Published:	Feb	19, 
2013
Earliest Date:	2004-
2006

Campaign:	APT1
Synopsis:	The	APT1	Report	is	perhaps	the	most	detailed	report	to	date.	They	also	minced	no	
words,	directly	accusing	China	as	a	state	actor	of	engaging	in	Cyber	Espionage.	Researchers	
at	Mandiant	tracked	back	activities	of	an	APT	group	they	referred	to	as	APT1	to	the	Chinese	
PLA	Unit	61398	with	relatively	solid	evidence.	They	even	went	so	far	as	to	report	the	building	
which	they	believed	APT1	was	operating	out	of,	and	unmask	three	operators	–	UglyGorilla,	
DOTA,	and	SuperHard	–	giving	possible	real	names,	online	personas	and	other	identifying	infor-
mation	about	them.	APT1	operated	over	half	a	decade	at	least,	stealing	“hundreds	of	terabytes	
of	data	from	at	least	141	organizations,”	often	conducting	such	operations	in	parallel.	The	
attackers	maintain	access	to	a	given	network	for	nearly	a	year	on	average.	The	attackers	oper-
ated	during	the	9:00am	to	5:00pm	Beijing	Time	and	thy	followed	a	fairly	strict	methodology	of	
attack,	similar	to	the	one	noted	in	the	NightDragon	report:

1.	

2.	

Initial	reconnaissance

Initial	compromise	of	a	system,	largely	though	spear	phishing

3.	 Establishing	a	foothold	in	the	network	through	Trojan	dropping	to	a	C2	server

4.	 Escalating	privileges	through	credential	harvesting

5.	

Internal	reconnaissance	of	the	network	and	

While	Mandiant	generically	refers	to	energy	companies,	one	of	the	trojaned	files	they	note	
was	used	in	the	spearfishing	attack	bears	the	name	“Oil-Field-Services-Analysis-And-Outlook.
zip”	which	really	ties.	Mandiant	notes	that	APT1	is	also	referred	to	as	the	Comment	Group,	a	
name	given	for	the	communications	method	used	by	their	RATs	which	would	set	attributes	in	
web	pages	as	a	means	of	C2.

Purpose:	Exfiltration	of	“competitive	proprietary	operations	and	project-financing	information	
with	regard	to	oil	and	gas	field	bids	and	operations”
Entry Method: Spear Phishing
Countries with Companies Affected:	Undisclosed

12

Campaign:	Byzantine	Candor
Synopsis:	An	exposé	run	by	Bloomberg	in	2012	chronicled	the	undertakings	of	a	security	
research	coalition	which	decided	to	track	one	of	the	largest	Cyber	Espionage	groups	operating	
out	of	China.		Bloomberg	claims	that	US	Intelligence	had	been	keeping	tabs	on	the	group	for	
years,	which	they	referred	to	as	Byzantine	Candor.	In	the	same	breath,	Bloomberg	notes	that	
the	group	is	often	referred	to	as	the	“Comment	Group.”	Bloomberg	journalist	Chloe	Whiteaker	
also	published	a	short	but	technical	article	that	detailed	some	of	the	Comment	Groups	activi-
ties	and	tools.	The	report	included	an	infographic	that	identified	oil	and	gas	victims	of	the	com-
ment	group.

Publisher:	Bloomberg
Published:	July	26,	
2012
Earliest Date:	2002

Purpose:	“the	biggest	vacuuming	up	of	U.S.	proprietary	data	…	ever	seen”
Entry Method:	Social	Engineering,	Spear	Phishing
Countries with Companies Affected:	U.S.,	United	Kingdom

Report Based Attack Timeline

ShadyRAT

Night Dragon

Red October

The Elderwood Project

Mirage

Byzantine Candor

APT1

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Technical Similarities

Between	the	campaigns	identified	above,	there	are	a	few	technical	similarities	that	arise.	As	was	already	ad-

dressed,	these	attacks	have	been	selected	for	one	common	thread	they	share	–	targets	within	the	oil	and	gas	industry.	
Other	between	them	will	now	be	scrutinized	to	find	any	additional	links.	This	is	not	intended	to	suggest	that	the	same	
group	is	behind	every	attack,	but	rather	identify	tactical	and	operational	similarities	that	would	point	to	a	unified	source	
of	training	or	control.	

One	of	the	most	obvious	similarities	between	all	of	the	attacks	is	the	motive:	the	large	scale	theft	of	corporate	
data.	The	methodology	of	data	extraction	is	very	similar	between	Night	Dragon,	Shady	RAT,	Elderwood,	APT1,	and	Byz-
antine	Candor.	One	note	on	this	is	that	although	the	attacks	all	followed	a	similar	methodology,	this	very	methodology	is	
common	in	the	network	penetration	t	world,	and	so	not	entirely	unique.	Slides	from	a	presentation	given	by	SANS	affili-
ate	James	Shewmaker	in	2008	highlight	this	methodology	in	brief:	Reconnaissance,	Port/Vulnerability	Scan,	Exploitation,	
and	Repeat	from	the	new	vantage	point.	The	only	thing	largely	different	is	that	the	data	exfiltration	occurs	after	exploita-
tion	–	that	and	the	attackers	were	working	from	the	outside	initially,	so	they	used	social	engineering	to	get	in.		With	that	

13

said	the	fact	that	the	majority	of	these	used	highly	targeted	spear	phishing	and	exfiltrated	similar	data	using	RATs	is	not	
to	be	discounted.	Additionally,	these	attacks	all	appear	to	be	operating	out	of	either	Beijing,	Shanghai,	and	Shandong	
province.	

The	data	below	will	show	that	Byzantine	Candor	and	APT1	are	one	in	the	same	–	they	share	operators	(Ugly	

Gorilla)	and	unique	technical	infrastructure	like	Fully	Qualified	Domain	Names	(FQDNs).	Mandiant	tied	APT1	back	to	the	
PLA,	and	a	.	Mandiant	even	acknowledges	the	article	written	by	Bloomberg	in	their	report,	and	identifies	the	“Comment	
Group”	as	an	alias

IP Addresses & Origins

While	about	half	of	the	reports	omitted	IP	ranges,	the	majority	of	IP	address	ranges	mentioned	came	from	

service	provided	by	China	Unicom	to	one	of	two	locales:	Beijing	or	Shanghai.	The	major	exception	to	this	is	Red	October,	
which	largely	had	IP	address	ranges	coming	from	Germany	and	Russia.	Excluding	Red	October,	in	cases	where	ranges	
did	not	come	from	Beijing	or	Shanghai,	they	were	often	identified	as	host	that	were	compromised	and	used	as	proxies	
loaded	with	tools	such	as	HTRAN.

Elderwood

Mirage
114.240.0.0/20

Red	October
141.101.239.225
178.63.208.49

Night	Dragon
[unspecified	IP	
range	–	most	
C2	servers	
operating	out	
of	Heze	City,	
China]

APT1
223.166.0.0/15
58.246.0.0/15
112.64.0.0/15
139.226.0.0/15
114.80.0.0/20
101.80.0.0/20

Interestingly	Night	Dragon,	which	does	not	provide	a	range	of	IP	addresses,	offered	instead	that	an	individual	operating	
out	of	Heze	City,	Shandong,	China	was	responsible	for	providing	the	C2	servers	through	his	company.	An	article	published	
in	the	Wall	Street	Journal	notes	that	McAfee	identified	this	individual	as	“Song	Zhiyue.”3  

 Domains

A	full	list	of	domains	retrieved	from	the	various	reports	can	be	found	in	the	appendices.	Of	the	domains	which	
appeared	in	the	reports,	only	matches	between	APT1	and	Byzantine	Candor	were	identified.	The	rest	were	inconclusive	
as	some	of	the	reports	did	not	include	FQDNs	and	others	which	did	include	them	did	not	provide	a	full	list.	Additionally,	a	
large	portion	of	the	attacks	made	use	of	Dynamic	DNS	services,	where	the	parent	domain	is	not	inherently	malicious.	But	
subdomains	may	be	used	by	service	subscribers	for	their	own	purposes	without	policing.	

Registered domains common be-
tween APT1 & Byzantine Candor

*.hugesoft.org
www.arrowservice.net
www.blackcake.net
www.dnsweb.org
www.globalowa.com
www.purpledailt.com
www.worthhummer.net
www1.earthsolution.org
3 
From http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703716904576134661111518864.html

 Hodge, N. & Entous, A. (Feb 10, 2011). Oil Firms Hit by Hackers From China, Report Says. Retrieved 

14

wwwt.infosupports.com
With	that	said,	there	is	another	somewhat	tenuous	connection	between	two	of	the	campaigns:	Mirage	and	Elderwood.	
Night	Dragon	is	not	the	only	instance	where	an	individual	in	China	is	charged	with	providing	infrastructure	to	the	attack-
ers	via	their	business	–	HB	Gary	authored	a	report	in	the	wake	of	Operation	Aurora	which	implicated	a	business	called	
Bentium	operating	3322.org	out	of	Changzhou	and	a	man	named	Peng	Yong	as	providing	dynamic	DNS	services	to	the	
attackers.4	Operation	Aurora	was	tied	to	Elderwood	in	Symantec’s	Elderwood	Project	report	and	elsewhere.	Dell	Secure-
works	which	authored	the	Mirage	Report	also	authored	a	piece	known	as	the	Sin	Digoo	Affair.5	The	connecting	factor	
between	the	Sin	Digoo	affair	and	Mirage	was	that	an	operator	reused	several	email	addresses	(jeno_1980@hotmail.com	
&	king_public@hotmail.com)	and	infrastructure	between	them.	The	C2	servers	used	a	Dynamic	DNS	service	operated	by	
3322.org.	The	Sin	Digoo	Affair	also	ties	these	back	to	Gh0stNet	via	3322.org	and	the	RSA	breach	based	on	the	reuse	of	
IP	address	blocks	belonging	to	the	“China	Beijing	Province	Network	(AS4808).”	Peng	Yong	also	owns	other	domains	tied	
back	to	malicious	use	both	in	Aurora	and	elsewhere.	According	to	Steve	Ragan	of	the	Tech	Herald,	Peng	Yong	is	possibly	
the	author	of	the	CRC	function	used	in	some	of	the	Aurora	malware.6

It	is	entirely	possible	that	3322.org	was	providing	services	to	multiple	separate	APT	groups,	it	is	after	all	a	fairly	

successfully	Dynamic	DNS	service	which	has	been	documented	in	other	malware	cases.	However,	Peng’s	level	of	in-
volvement	in	the	Aurora	campaign	should	be	scrutinized.	Interestingly	the	Sin	Digoo	report	also	attempts	to	identify	the	
jeno_1980	account	which	had	the	alias	“Tawnya	Grilith”	attached	to	it.	In	the	process	of	their	investigation,	they	tied	
back	the	account	to	an	operator	going	by	the	screen	name	“xxgchappy.”	They	also	found	a	piece	of	malware	ostensibly	
written	by	xxgc	happy	appearing	to	date	back	to	March	of	2002.	This	is	potentially	significant	because	it	is	the	time	frame	
around	which	the	leaked	US	embassy	cable	had	noted	possible	PLA	cyber	espionage	activity.	Malware	used	by	this	actor,	
as	well	as	appearing	in	Mirage	and	Gh0stNet,	was	discovered	in	2011	and	2012	to	have	infected	government	ministries	in	
Vietnam,	Brunei,	and	Myanmar.	Additionally	there	are	a	few	infected	victims	in	Europe	and	the	Middle	East	belonging	to	
“government	ministries	in	different	countries,	an	embassy,	a	nuclear	safety	agency,	and	other	business-related	groups.”7  
This	is	of	interest	in	part	because	Red	October	also	targeted	government	ministries	and	embassies.

However,	in	order	to	more	fully	analyze	any	connections	between	the	domains	that	were	listed	in	each	of	the	

	
reports,	the	whois	and	ARIN	records	could	be	examined.	The	contact	information	could	then	be	cross-referenced	to	find	
similarities.	Unfortunately,	many	of	the	domains	had	their	contact	information	scrubbed	or	have	since	changed	hands	in	
the	wake	of	the	reports	being	released,	so	an	analysis	at	this	point	would	be	erroneous	and	incomplete	at	best.		

A	final	note	on	domains	is	that	many	of	the	reports	did	look	for	registrant	information	–	in	the	case	of	APT1	for	

instance,	many	registrants	blatantly	put	China	as	their	place	of	origin,	or	poorly	masked	this	fact	by	misspelling	the	places	
they	chose	or	including	a	Shanghai	phone	number.	In	the	case	of	Red	October	however,	all	registrations	with	the	excep-
tion	of	one	were	done	with	“.ru”	email	addresses,	and	addresses	were	not	reused	as	had	been	the	case	in	other	instanc-
es.	This	signals	a	much	more	concerted	effort	to	remain	anonymous,	and	a	level	of	professionalism	not	seen	in	the	other	
attacks.

4 
operation-aurora
5 
threat-intelligence/threats/sindigoo/
6 
www.thetechherald.com/articles/Was-Operation-Aurora-really-just-a-conventional-attack/9124/
7 
threat-intelligence/threats/sindigoo/

 Stewart, J. (Feb 29, 2012). The Sin Digoo Affair. Retrieved from http://www.secureworks.com/cyber-

 Ragan, S. (Jan 27, 2010). Was Operation Aurora really just a conventional attack? Retrieved from http://

 HB Gary. (Feb 10, 2010). Operation Aurora. Retrieved From http://hbgary.com/hbgary-threat-report-

 Stewart, J. (Feb 29, 2012). The Sin Digoo Affair. Retrieved from http://www.secureworks.com/cyber-

15

Revised Attack Timeline

Considering the information which was discussed and presented, below is a revised attack timeline, consolidating indi-
vidual campaigns into the likely perpetrator of the attack and extending as necessary.

ShadyRAT

The Elderwood Project

Night Dragon

Red October

The Beijing Group [Mirage]

PLA Unit 61398 [APT1, Byzantine Candor]

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Events that Correlate

Using the technical data and behavioral analysis above, individual incidents of reported hacking in news media can be 
connected to campaigns. Below are several incidents that demonstrate strong correlation to the information discussed 
above.

Norway,	November	2011

Norway	had	the	most	prolific	series	of	cyber-attacks	in	the	country’s	history	in	November	2011.8	As	reported	

by	Norway’s	National	Security	Agency	(NSM),	more	than	10	firms	were	targeted	by	an	advanced	persistent	threat	using	
spear-fishing	attacks,	many	of	which	were	in	the	oil	industry.9	The	attacks	may	have	been	ongoing	for	over	a	year.	The	
companies	were	unaware	of	the	attacks	until	concerned	employees	reported	receiving	suspicious	emails.	

No	specific	information	was	released	on	the	tools	or	malware	that	were	used	to	conduct	these	attacks;	however	

NSM	noted	that	a	virus	was	used	in	conjunction	with	tailored	spear-fishing	attacks	making	use	of	trojan	attachments.10 
It	appeared	that	the	purpose	of	the	attacks	was	large-scale	data	exfiltration.	As	was	the	case	in	Night	Dragon,	the	NSM	
bulletin	suggests	that	the	attacks	varied	slightly	each	time	so	as	to	avoid	AV	detection.	An	article	by	Defense	News	quotes	
NSM	as	stating	that	“the	attacks	have,	on	several	occasions,	come	when	the	companies	have	been	involved	in	large-scale	
contract	negotiations.”11	This	could	suggest	that	the	attackers	were	privy	to	the	negotiations.	Interestingly,	in	2010	Nor-
way’s	Statoil	was	engaged	in	negotiations	with	China	Oilfield	Services,	Ltd.	(COSL).		According	to	the	Wall	Street	Journal,	
COSL	is	the	“oil-field	services	and	rig-construction	unit	of	state-controlled	China	National	Offshore	Oil	Corp.,	the	country’s	

 BBC News. (2011, November 18). Hackers attack norway’s oil, gas, and defence businesses. BBC News 

8 
Technology. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-15790082
 France-Presse, A. (2011, November 18). Norwegian defense firms hacked, intel reports. Defense News. 
9 
Retrieved from http://www.defensenews.com/article/20111118/DEFSECT04/111180309/Norwegian-Defense-
Firms-Hacked-Intel-Reports
10 
Nytt-fra-NSM/Samme-aktor-bak-flere-datainnbrudd/
 France-Presse, A. (2011, November 18). Norwegian defense firms hacked, intel reports. Defense News. 
11 
Retrieved from http://www.defensenews.com/article/20111118/DEFSECT04/111180309/Norwegian-Defense-
Firms-Hacked-Intel-Reports

 NSM (2011) Samme aktør bak flere datainnbrudd . Retrieved From https://www.nsm.stat.no/Aktuelt/

16

largest	offshore	oil	and	gas	company	by	output.”12

The	goal	of	the	attacks	appeared	to	be	the	collection	of	confidential	information,	such	as	user	names,	passwords,	

industrial	drawings,	and	other	proprietary	documents.13	This	would	seem	to	be	consistent	with	the	types	of	informa-
tion	sought	in	both	Night	Dragon	and	APT1.	The	timeframe	of	the	attack	aligns	with	the	event	timeline	listed	in	the	APT1	
report,	and	within	the	report	there	is	an	event	appearing	in	Norway.	This	is	then	a	convergence	of	time	and	objectives	
across	these	operations	which	complement	the	tactical	similarities	involving	the	use	of	social	engineering,	persistent	
backdoors,	and	large	scale	data	exfiltration.

Telvent,	September	2012

	
In	September	2012	Canadian	energy	company	Telvent	was	infiltrated.	Telvent	is	responsible	for	supplying	control	
programs	and	systems	for	over	half	of	the	oil	and	gas	pipelines	in	North	and	Latin	America.14	The	attackers	installed	mal-
ware	which	they	used	to	steal	project	files	related	to	Telvent’s	OASyS	SCADA	product.	According	to	security	blogger	Brian	
Krebbs,	OASyS	is	“a	product	that	helps	energy	firms	mesh	older	IT	assets	with	more	advanced	‘smart	grid’	technologies.” 
15

	
The	infiltration	follows	the	same	methodical	approach	exhibited	in	the	Night	Dragon	and	Norwegian	intrusions.	
Not	only	was	the	malware	difficult	to	detect,	but	it	was	planted	using	spear-phishing	methods	that	targeted	mid	to	high	
level	executives16 17.		

Perhaps	the	most	convincing	piece	of	evidence	as	to	the	origins	of	the	attack	is	what	appears	to	be	a	notifica-

tion	released	by	Telvent	which	identified	malicious	files	and	domains	used	for	Command	and	Control	(C2).	The	filenames	
“fxsst.dll”	and	“ntshrui.dll”	which	appear	in	the	Telvent	notification	also	appear	in	the	APT1	report,	along	with	the	
domains	“hugesoft.org”	and	“bigish.net”	which	are	noted	as	mainstays	of	APT1	by	Mandiant.	Several	security	firms	at	
the	time	also	reported	the	belief	that	the	attack	had	been	perpetrated	by	the	“comment	group”	an	alias	in	the	Mandiant	
Report	for	APT1.		In	fact,	Mandiant	actually	mentioned	the	Telvent	attack	in	their	report	under	a	section	entitled	“APT1	in	
the	News.”

The	reason	the	Telvent	attack	is	so	important	is	that	it	represents	the	possibility	for	departure	from	simply	data	

exfiltration.	Although	available	information	indicates	that	the	goal	of	the	attack	was	stealing	software,	the	software	could	
just	have	easily	been	modified	and	replaced.	Attacking	a	prolific	energy	ICS	company	like	Telvent	means	that	a	trojan	
could	be	planted	in	the	software,	being	unintentionally	distributed	to	Telvent’s	customers	and	offering	the	perpetrator	an	
avenue	for	more	insidious	attacks.

 Simon Hall (2013, December 13). China,	Norway	Strike	Oil	Deal	Despite	Tensions. Wall Street Journal. 

 Ibid.
 Vijayan, J. (2012, September 26). Energy giant confirms breach of customer project files. Computer-

12 
Retrieved from http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703727804576016841533225226.html
13 
14 
world. Retrieved from http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9231748/Energy_giant_confirms_breach_of_
customer_project_files
15 
 Krebs, B. (2012, September 26). Chinese hackers blamed for intrusion at energy industry giant telvent. 
Retrieved from http://krebsonsecurity.com/2012/09/chinese-hackers-blamed-for-intrusion-at-energy-industry-
giant-telvent/#more-16936
 Vijayan, J. (2012, September 21). Cyber espionage campaign targets enery companies. Computerworld. 
16 
Retrieved from http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9231596/Cyber_espionage_campaign_targets_energy_
companies
17 

 Ibid.

17

Attribution

China

Perhaps	the	most	readily	apparent	attribution	is	to	China	as	a	state	actor	–	the	APT1	report	makes	a	convincing	

argument	for	this	which	offers	a	lot	of	very	well	constructed	circumstantial	evidence.	Night	Dragon	highlights	the	use	of	a	
RAT	known	as	zwSheel	which	was	used	both	as	a	to	perform	C2	and	to	create	custom	trojans.	Interestingly,	upon	launch	
zwShell	displays	an	error	dialog	with	a	hidden	text	field	and	the	program	will	not	function	unless	the	password	‘zw.china’	
is	entered	into	this	hidden	text	field.	The	ranges	of	consecutive	IP	addresses	used	were	large	enough	that	it	is	likely	that	
the	Chinese	government	had	to	be	involved	in	some	capacity.

China	certainly	possesses	the	motive	to	commit	the	attacks	–	according	to	the	Washington	Times,	China	is	

already	surpassing	the	United	States	as	the	number	one	oil	importer	from	the	Middle	East18,	and	poised	to	become	the	
number	one	oil	importer	globally.	

Increasing	Demand

Chinese	demand	for	oil	has	grown	dramatically	as	its	economy	continues	to	expand.	Since	the	mid-1990s,	China	

has	been	a	net	importer	of	oil.19	The	continuous	growth	of	the	Chinese	economy	has	resulted	in	vast	increases	in	the	
need	for	fuel	and	petro	products.	China	has	doubled	its	oil	consumption	in	the	last	10	years	and	become	the	second	
largest	consumer	of	oil	in	the	world	behind	the	U.S.20		Like	the	U.S.,	China	is	now	dependent	on	its	oil	imports	to	feed	its	
thriving	economy.	It	is	estimated	that	China’s	import	dependency	could	rise	to	over	50%	by	2020.1

China’s	oil	refineries	are	not	capable	of	handling	the	current	demand	the	economy	is	placing	on	them.	There	is	
evidence	that	the	refineries	used	for	fuel	are	at	a	competitive	disadvantage	when	compared	to	other	countries.	To	com-
plicate	matters,	many	Chinese	oil	refineries	are	also	oriented	to	the	making	of	diesel	and	not	gasoline,	which	is	in	increas-
ing demand1.

		
This	means	China	is	in	great	need	of	more	sources	of	oil	and	more	efficient	refineries.	The	development	of	im-
proved	refining	and	mining	equipment	takes	years	and	can	cost	millions	of	dollars.	Exploration	costs	for	finding	new	oil	
reserves	have	almost	tripled	in	the	past	decade.21		They	could	save	billions	of	dollars	and	shave	years	of	research	off	by	
acquiring	technology	from	petrochemical	corporations	that	are	already	heavily	invested	in	this	continuing	process.	It	also	
means	that	China	would	be	able	to	compete	in	the	global	market	place	much	sooner	and	more	competitively	than	if	they	
waited	to	develop	the	technology	on	their	own.	This	establishes	that	there	are	significant	reasons	for	China	to	act	on	
behalf	of	its	own	oil	industry	and	use	its	state	resources	to	conduct	cyber-attacks	against	corporate	entities	worldwide.	

 Skeer, J. (2007). China on the move: Oil price explosion?. Energy policy, 35(1), 678-691.

18 
 Hill, P. (March 14, 2013). China poised to top U.S. as oil buyer; increased car sales spur jump. Retrieved 
from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/mar/14/china-poised-to-top-us-as-top-oil-buyer/?page=all
19 
http://discover.lib.purdue.edu:3210/purdue?ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&ctx_enc=info%3Aofi%2Fenc%3AUTF-8&ctx_tim=2013-03-
09T15%3A59%3A35IST&url_ver=Z39.88-2004&url_ctx_fmt=infofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Actx&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fprimo.
exlibrisgroup.com%3Aprimo3-Article-wos&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3A&rft.genre=article&rft.
atitle=China%20on%20the%20
20 
indexmundi.com/g/r.aspx?v=91&t=10
21 
article/2010/02/11/us-oil-exploration-risk-analysis-idUSTRE61A28X20100211

 Index Mundi, (2012). Country comparison > Oil – consumption > Top 10. Retrieved from http://www.

 Johnson, C., (2010). Oil exploration costs rocket as risks rise. Retrieved from http://www.reuters.com/

18

	

China’s	Oil	Production	

China’s	Oil	Production	in	Thousands	of	Barrels	per	Day22

As	seen	in	the	chart	above,	China	experienced	a	significant	increase	in	oil	production	during	2009.		This	spike	in	
production	could	be	due	to	information	that	China	gained	from	US	firms	through	cyber	espionage	actions,	such	as	Night	
Dragon.		The	Night	Dragon	attacks	were	believed	to	have	begun	circa	2007.		According	to	Kirk,	information	taken	during	
these	attacks	includes	market	intelligence	reports	and	information	on	operational	production	systems.23  Similarly, the 
Mandiant	report	shows	that	the	APT1	group	has	monitored	Mandiant’s	energy	industry	customers	from	approximately	
the	beginning	of	2009	to	2012.24		During	these	attacks,	APT1	would	export	terabytes	of	data	from	the	victims	to	China.		
In	tandem	with	these	revelations,	China’s	also	aggressively	pursued	oil	supply	contracts	during	2009.25		During	this	time	
major	Chinese	state	oil	companies	acquired	holdings	in	18	different	countries.		China	is	determined	to	take	on	oil	and	gas	
infrastructure	development	and	to	acquire	oil	industry	assets.26  

Although	there	is	evidence	that	China	has	been	conducting	cyber	espionage	activities	against	oil	industry	targets	
as	far	back	as	2007,	there	is	only	trivial	growth	until	2009.		This	could	be	a	result	of	the	time	and	recourse	commitment	
required	to	process	the	data	that	was	acquired.		As	mentioned,	both	the	Night	Dragon	and	APT1	attacks	stole	an	enor-
mous	amount	of	data	from	English	speaking	companies.		It	is	necessary	for	English-fluent	operators	to	sift	through	this	
data	and	extract	actionable	information	to	report.		This	information	would	also	need	to	be	provided	to	experts	in	the	
field	who	could	recognize	the	its	vale,	and	that	process	would	have	to	be	done	discreetly	so	as	not	to	arouse	suspicions.	
This	would	take	time.	The	Mandiant	report	comments	on	the	fact	that	there	are	limited	English-fluent	operators	directly	
involved	in	the	technical	end	of	APT1,	which	would	significantly	hinder	progress.27			Considering	these	factors	and	the	
timeframe	for	growth	presented	above,	it	is	conceivable	that	the	information	and	strategy	for	its	use	would	not	be	avail-
able	until	2009.		At	this	point,	China	could	act	to	increase	the	output	of	the	holdings	that	they	currently	owned.		Also,	the	
information	gained	from	market	intelligence	reports	and	possibly	exploration	reports	could	guide	the	state	companies	
in	deciding	which	new	holdings	to	purchase	during	this	time	period.		The	new	holdings	would	allow	for	increased	output	
overall.

China’s	Investments

 U.S. Energy Information Administration.  (2013, February 12).  International Energy Statistics [Data 

China’s	fervor	for	oil	acquisition	has	not	been	limited	to	aggressive	increases	in	holdings	and	contracts.	These	ac-
tivities	are	likely	only	one	piece	of	a	global	strategy	to	secure	China’s	future	oil	requirements,	including	reserves	that	may	
not	be	productive	today	or	in	the	immediate	future.	This	overarching	strategy	has	apparently	led	to	a	pattern	of	quiet	
investment,	which	may	be	a	direct	cause	for	concern	in	America.		An	article	appearing	in	the	Associated	Press	discusses	
these	Chinese	investments	in	Venezuela,	the	country	with	the	largest	proven	oil	reserves	as	of	2011,	and	throughout	the	
Caribbean	and	South	America.	The	article	notes	that	“when	Venezuela	seized	billions	of	dollars	in	assets	from	Exxon	Mo-
22 
file].  Retrieved from http://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/iedindex3.cfm?tid=5&pid=53&aid=1&cid=CH,&syi
d=2006&eyid=2012&unit=TBPD
23 
http://www.networkworld.com/news/2011/021011-night-dragon-attacks-from-china.html
24 
http://intelreport.mandiant.com/Mandiant_APT1_Report.pdf
 Hayward, D.L.L.  (2009, June 18).  China’s oil supply dependence.  Journal of Energy Security.  Retrieved 
25 
from: http://www.ensec.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=197:chinas-oil-supply-dependen
ce&catid=96:content&Itemid=345
26 
27 
http://intelreport.mandiant.com/Mandiant_APT1_Report.pdf

 Ibid.
 Mandiant. (2013, February 18). APT1: Exposing one of China’s cyber espionage units. Retrieved from 

 Kirk, J. (2011, February 10). ‘Night dragon’ attacks from china strike energy companies. Retrieved from 

 Mandiant. (2013, February 18). APT1: Exposing one of China’s cyber espionage units. Retrieved from 

19

bil	and	other	foreign	companies,	Chinese	state	banks	and	investors	didn’t	blink.	Over	the	past	five	years	they	have	loaned	
Venezuela	more	than	$35	billion.”	They	have	similarly	provided	aid	to	countries	like	Ecuador,	another	country	within	the	
top	20	of	proven	oil	reserves.	In	some	cases	it	appears	that	the	Chinese	are	making	loans	that	the	countries	will	likely	be	
incapable	of	repaying,	placing	them	squarely	within	China’s	control.	Many	of	the	deals	included	“repayment	in	oil	and	
natural	gas”	and	billions	of	dollars	have	been	loaned	directly	to	energy	companies	in	Russia	and	Turkmenistan,	both	of	
which	have	been	targeted	in	cyber	espionage	campaigns	and	are	in	the	top	5	for	proven	natural	gas	reserves.	

Although	the	IEA	has	predicted	that	America	is	moving	towards	energy	independence	and	is	poised	to	become	
the	number	one	oil	exporter	by	2017,	the	loans	are	breeding	closeness	with	and	reliance	on	China	by	countries	in	close	
proximity	to	the	US.	This	could	allow	for	the	Chinese	to	weaken	American	influence	in	the	region	and	create	agitation	
against	the	US	or	between	other	countries	within	the	region	in	order	to	distract	the	US	from	its	goals	in	other	areas	stra-
tegic	to	the	Chinese.	These	deals	also	place	China	in	the	supply	chain	for	borrowers’	projects	where	China	has	insisted	
on	Chinese	companies	being	involved	as	a	stipulation	of	the	loan.	These	loans	have	not	required	any	economic	reforms	
to	accompany	them,	meaning	that	countries	which	could	not	secure	a	loan	from	the	IMF	due	to	poor	financial	decisions	
may	continue	to	flounder	in	spite	of	aid,	perhaps	even	more	so	because	of	it.	In	the	worst	case	scenario,	these	countries	
become	unstable.		While	this	may	cause	issues	to	the	Chinese	in	some	logistical	capacities,	it	would	also	serve	to	divert	
some	of	America’s	attention,	making	the	situation	a	palatable	outcome	for	China.

Other actors

An	analysis	of	these	events	would	be	remiss	without	exploring	any	other	possible	attribution.	Though	unlikely,	

it	is	possible	that	there	were	other	actors	involved.	As	pointed	out	by	Eugene	Kaspersky	in	his	criticism	of	the	Shady	RAT	
report,	some	of	the	tools	and	techniques	are	generic	enough	to	not	lend	themselves	to	attribution	to	a	particular	entity.	
Even	the	ones	that	are	of	Chinese	origin	do	not	of	themselves	implicate	the	Chinese	government,	only	an	actor	familiar	
with	how	the	tool	works	or	minimally	trained	in	Mandarin.	A	large	portion	of	these	tools	were	freely	available	on	under-
ground	Chinese	hacking	sites.	Chinese	hacking	collectives	or	corporations	may	have	been	independently	involved.	How-
ever,	due	to	the	suspicions	voiced	in	the	leaked	diplomatic	cables	suggesting	PLA	involvement28	and	Mandiant’s	research	
on	the	topic	indicating	the	same29,	it	is	highly	unlikely	that	the	Chinese	government	was	not	involved	whatsoever.		These	
sources,	and	the	timeframe	in	which	the	attacks	occurred	--	between	roughly	9am	and	5pm	consistently	over	a	protract-
ed	period	of	time3031	--	is	indicative	of	a	formalization	of	the	activity.	This	is	further	evidenced	by	the	resources	required	
to	carry	out	the	attack	and	the	Chinese	government’s	grasps	on	censorship	of	their	citizens	through	technical	controls.	
Terabytes	of	data	infiltrating	the	country	is	unlikely	to	have	been	missed,	particularly	over	the	course	of	a	decade	of	
activity.

	If	China	had	been	involved	in	any	capacity	in	cyber	espionage	attacks	and	this	had	been	discovered	by	another	

entity,	said	entity	might	have	leveraged	this	knowledge	to	collude	with	them	either	through	coercion,	cooperation,	
or	clandestinely	without	the	Chinese	government	knowing.	Though	this	may	seem	farfetched,	a	report	released	by	a	
Luxemburg	security	firm	details	how,	in	the	wake	of	Mandiant’s	APT1	report,	they	decided	to	engage	in	an	intelligence	
gathering	operation	on	the	APT	groups	operating	out	of	China.	By	scanning	Chinese	IP	ranges	for	C2	servers	known	to	be	
used	in	the	APT1	attacks	and	exploiting	weaknesses	in	the	attackers’	C2	infrastructure,	they	were	able	to	access,	monitor,	
and	control	the	APT	infrastructure	without	the	adversary’s	knowledge.	Bloomberg	also	hinted	at	the	possibility	of	Ameri-
can	security	firms	acting	in	a	similar	way	when	they	“exploit[ed]	a	hole	in	the	hackers’	security	…	logging	the	intruders’	
every	move	as	they	crept	into	networks...”	Knowing	that	the	Chinese	were	actively	engaged	in	such	operations	and	likely	
turning	a	blind	eye	to	any	infiltration	of	data,	another	actor	operating	through	China	and	attempting	to	incriminate	China	
could	have	engaged	in	cyber	espionage	as	well.	This	is	truly	a	stretch	of	the	imagination,	and	there	is	no	evidence	what-
soever	to	support	this	theory.	The	most	likely	case	for	any	attribution	involves	the	Chinese	government	in	some	capacity.

 Glanz, J. & Markoff, J. (Dec 4 2010). Vast Hacking by a China Fearful of the Web. Retrieved from http://

20

 Mandiant. (Feb, 2013). APT1: Exposing One of China’s Cyber Espionage Units. Retrieved from http://

28 
www.nytimes.com/2010/12/05/world/asia/05wikileaks-china.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0
29 
www.mandiant.com/APT1
30 
31 
tacks: “Night Dragon”. Retrieved from http://www.mcafee.com/us/resources/white-papers/wp-global-energy-
cyberattacks-night-dragon.pdf

 Ibid.
 McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee Labs™. (Feb 10, 2011). Global Energy Cyberat-

Significance Going Forward

The	most	important	takeaway	from	these	incidents	is	the	significance	they	hold	to	the	future	of	the	Oil	&	Gas	

industry.	Inexorably,	Oil	and	Gas	is	intertwined	with	the	Cyber	domain,	and	will	only	continue	to	become	more	so	as	the	
time	progresses.	The	increased	reliance	on	technology	means	that	more	and	more	data	and	control	will	be	accessible	to	
the	attackers	in	the	future.	A	large	contingent	of	the	attacks	relied	on	social	engineering	and	spear	phishing	as	a	point	
of	entry,	though	there	is	a	shift	toward	“watering	hole”	attacks.	This	is	significant	because	even	as	technical	controls	get	
better,	unwitting	employees	and	their	behavior	will	continue	to	be	a	focal	point	in	targeted	attacks.	

	Automation	via	SCADA/ICS	has	been	an	integral	part	of	the	Oil	industry’s	past	and	will	be	even	more	so	in	the	fu-
ture.		Attacks	like	the	Telvent	attack	herald	an	insidious	turn	of	events	for	SCADA	within	Oil	&	Gas.	The	attackers	seemed	
intent	on	stealing	SCADA	software,	but	it	is	conceivable	that	they	could	have	taken	such	an	opportunity	to	embed	their	
own	code	within	it,	providing	a	capability	to	manipulate	large	swaths	of	North	American	pipeline	at	will.	This	is	not	
meant	to	be	alarmist,	but	rather	considers	the	next	evolution	of	attack.	Leveraging	malicious	SCADA	software	to	achieve	
a	kinetic	outcome	is	not	the	baseline	going	forward,	but	it	is	well	within	the	realm	of	possibility.	The	nature	of	a	capabil-
ity	like	this	means	that	it	can	only	be	leveraged	to	catastrophic	effect	once,	so	the	possibility	of	an	entity	using	it	outside	
of	sustained	or	ardent	conflict	is	low.		However	using	this	on	a	micro-scale,	and	degrading	service	or	quality	of	service	
through	manipulation	of	malicious	software	on	the	PLCs	or	HMIs	could	be	more	viable	in	a	peacetime	setting,	and	less	
noticeable.	This	type	of	activity	could	be	used	at	the	height	of	negotiations	or	disputes	to	put	an	adversary	in	a	compro-
mising	position,	or	simply	distract	them.

The	Cyber-warfare	doctrine	of	large	nation-states	like	China	and	Russia	that	have	a	huge	stake	in	the	Oil	&	

Gas	Industries	is	one	of	perpetual	conflict.		Timothy	Thomas	discusses	this	in	his	books	Recasting	the	Red	Star	and	The	
Dragon’s	Quantum	Leap.	The	idea	of	an	“active	defense”	and	keeping	potential	competitors	“off	balance”	is	the	posture	
going	forward.	The	concept	of	peace	being	a	time	without	conflict	is	rapidly	disappearing.	As	globalization	has	become	
the	status	quo	and	global	economies	become	ever	more	entangled,	threat	of	a	large-scale	kinetic	confrontation	between	
top	tier	economic	powerhouses	is	nearly	strategically	unviable.	Instead,	both	state	and	non-state	actors	will	use	constant	
conflict	in	the	Cyber	realm	as	a	method	for	accruing	resources	and	exercising	control.	While	cyber	conflict	often	brings	
to	mind	the	idea	of	SCADA	initiated	pipeline	explosions,	the	theft	of	intellectual	property	and	business	communications	
is	far	more	likely	to	continue.	This	type	of	low	intensity	conflict	is	cost-effective	and	politically	sustainable	in	an	environ-
ment	where	direct	attribution	is	at	times	difficult.	The	idea	of	a	constant	or	long	term	“ally”	or	“strategic	partner”	is	no	
longer	valid	–	coordination	will	be	largely	issue	specific,	and	only	to	the	extent	required	to	achieve	an	end.	While	coor-
dinating	on	one	topic	nations	will	be	in	conflict	on	another.	This	is	not	in	any	way	a	revolutionary	or	new	idea;	however	
it	is	becoming	more	and	more	relevant	to	salient	industries	operating	within	their	own	nation	state	and	abroad	as	they	
become	far	more	accessible	and	targetable	in	this	type	of	conflict.

Non-state	actors	will	play	a	huge	role	in	future	cyber	conflict	within	the	oil	and	gas	industry.	The	Norway	attack	
which	coincided	with	a	meeting	by	a	state-backed	Oil	&	Gas	company	may	suggest	that	they	already	are	playing	a	role.	
Certainly	Antivirus	&	Incident	Response	companies	are	playing	a	role	as	non-state	actors	by	releasing	these	reports.	But	
aside	from	cooperation	with	Sate	actors,	non-state	actors	may	operate	independently	against	other	non-state	actors	in	
pursuit	of	competitive	advantage	or	sabotage.	Hacker	collectives	like	anonymous	could	have	an	out-sized	impact	if	more	
highly	organized,	and	the	attacks	they	have	already	carried	out	could	become	more	severe	–	instead	of	simply	releasing	
email	addresses,	they	could	release	bid	data,	or	attempt	something	more	destructive	akin	to	a	Shamoon	type	attack.

The	release	of	reports	on	APT	is	in	a	way	its	own	form	of	cyber	conflict;	the	rhetoric	of	these	reports	is	an	infor-
mation	influence	operation,	both	targeted	at	potential	customers	and	at	adversaries.	These	reports	also	allow	adversar-
ies	to	see	how	they	were	detected	and	correct	mistakes	going	forward.	It	is	likely	that	future	attacks	will	lack	the	types	of	
unprofessional	mistakes	made	during	these	campaigns.		The	embedding	of	personal	signatures	(a	la	Ugly	Gorilla)	or	the	
use	of	passwords	like	“zw.china”	will	diminish	significantly.		If	an	attacker	wished	to	be	more	anonymous,	it	would	start	
to	transition	to	open-source	and	generic	tools	exclusively	–	tools	which	are	common	enough	that	they	do	not	provide	
significant	attribution.	Tools	like	the	Metasploit	framework	provide	a	high	degree	of	extensibility	without	offering	a	

21

significant	amount	in	the	way	of	attribution	by	tool	choice.	If	not	a	transition	like	this,	then	using	tools	stolen	from	other	
attackers	or	written	in	other	languages	would	complicate	attribution.	The	move	within	the	Information	Technology	world	
toward	more	forensically	resistant	technologies	such	as	SSDs	and	Cloud	Service	infrastructures	which	make	attribution	
and	legal	jurisdiction	much	more	convoluted	will	continue	to	be	a	catalyst	for	future	attacks	alongside	services	already	in	
use	like	Dynamic	DNS.	

These	cyber	espionage	attacks	are	likely	the	newly	established	baseline	for	future	cyber	conflict	within	the	Oil	&	
Gas	Industry.	Attacks	of	this	nature	and	magnitude	will	continue	to	originate	from	places	which	do	not	have	laws	against	
it	or	are	complicit,	including	China	which	has	a	need	to	secure	oil	dominance	in	the	future.	However,	increasing	interna-
tional	pressure	will	necessitate	more	covert	action,	with	attackers	dispersing	their	operators	or	proxies	throughout	large	
geographic	areas.	Non-state	actors	will	likely	present	APT	threats	in	the	future,	including	State-backed	and	independent	
competitors.

22

Sabotage

Middle East, 2012

Another	series	of	events	may	be	connected	as	well,	and	while	they	bear	no	immediately	apparent	relationship,	

	
closer	inspection	is	suggestive	of	the	possibility	of	another	underlying	and	ongoing	conflict.		To	understand	the	context	of	
the	exchange,	a	non-oil-related	cyber	event	must	be	briefly	discussed.	A	relatively	unprecedented	cyber-attack	came	to	
light	in	2010	when	the	Stuxnet	virus	hit	the	uranium	enrichment	centrifuges	in	Iran.		Iran	believes	the	attack	was	con-
ducted	by	Israel	or	the	United	States.		This	attack	had	targeted	the	information	networks	of	offshore	platforms;	however	
they	reported	that	they	were	able	to	defend	against	the	attack.32		Iran	may	have	thought	it	was	Israel	because	they	had	
threatened	to	take	military	action	if	the	sanctions	on	Tehran’s	banking	and	oil	sectors	did	not	stop	Iran	from	continu-
ing	their	nuclear	program.		The	attacks	targeted	Iran’s	infrastructure	and	communications	companies,	which	slowed	the	
Internet	in	Iran.		Israel	and	the	United	States	have	denied	being	a	part	of	this	attack.	

Then	In	April	of	2012,	Iran	was	again	the	target	of	a	cyber-attack.	The	Islamic	republic	reported	that	a	computer	

	
virus	was	detected	inside	the	control	systems	of	Kharg	Island,	which	controls	Iran’s	crude	oil	exports.33	This	virus	began	to	
attack	several	of	the	main	Persian	Gulf	oil	terminals	in	Iran,	which	forced	the	Iranian	officials	to	disconnect	them	from	the	
Internet	to	avoid	spreading	the	virus.34	This	virus,	known	as	Wiper,	successfully	erased	information	from	hard	disks	at	the	
Oil	Ministry’s	headquarters	in	Tehran.35		The	headquarters	had	apparently	been	the	initial	target	of	the	virus.	Oil	Ministry	
officials	reported	that	the	international	selling	division	had	not	been	infected,	but	it	many	security	vulnerabilities	were	
exposed.		Iran	is	one	of	the	world’s	largest	oil	producers	and	an	attack	could	affect	the	market,	and	raise	oil	prices	global-
ly.36  

As	with	the	Stuxnet	worm,	Iran	blamed	Israel	and	the	United	States	for	the	spread	of	Wiper.		Iranian	officials	be-
lieve	they	were	targeted	because	of	their	growing	nuclear	program.37		Other	affected	organizations	include	the	National	
Iranian	Oil	Processing	and	Distribution	Company,	National	Iranian	Gas	Company,	Iranian	Offshore	Oil	Company,	Pars	Oil	
and	Gas,	and	other	companies	controlled	by	the	National	Iranian	Oil	Company.38	The	destruction	of	this	data	doesn’t	
provide	much	in	the	way	of	direct	monetary	gain	for	any	criminal	elements.	The	real	advantage	gained	by	unleashing	
Wiper	is	to	put	pressure	on	Iran	by	causing	economic	loss	and	reminding	them	that	they	are	vulnerable.	The	president	
of	the	Tehran	World	Trade	Center,	Mohammad	Reza	Sabzalipour,	believes	the	cyber-attack	was	indeed	a	direct	message.		
The	aim	was	to	increase	pressure	so	that	Iran	will	compromise	in	the	upcoming	nuclear	talks	on	May	23,	2012.	He	later	
states,	“We	are	in	a	bloodless	war.	If	the	talks	fail,	Iran	can	expect	much	more	of	this39”.		

 Reuters.,	(2012,	October	08).	Cyber	attackers	target	Iranian	oil	platforms:	official.	Reuters.	Retrieved	from		

32 
 Erdbrink, T., (2012, April 23). Facing Cyberattack, Iranian Officials Disconnect Some Oil Terminals 
From Internet. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/24/world/middleeast/
iranian-oil-sites-go-offline-amid-cyberattack.html?_r=0
33 
http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/08/us-iran-cyber-idUSBRE8970B820121008
 Ibid
34 
35 
 Erdbrink, T., (2012, April 23). Facing Cyberattack, Iranian Officials Disconnect Some Oil Terminals 
From Internet. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/24/world/middleeast/
iranian-oil-sites-go-offline-amid-cyberattack.html?_r=0
36 
37 
38 
39 

 Ibid
 Ibid
 Ibid
 Ibid

23

An	oil	embargo	in	concert	with	other	economic	sanctions	by	the	United	States	and	EU	was	announced	in	late	

2011	in	an	effort	to	discourage	any	further	Iranian	nuclear	activity.	In	March	of	2012,	the	Obama	administration	an-
nounced	that	the	market	could	withstand	the	embargo	of	Iranian	oil,	and	raised	US-Iran	tensions	over	the	issue40.	Saudi	
Arabia	had	also	indicated	that	it	would	boost	oil	exports	to	the	US	and	abroad	to	compensate	for	the	void	that	would	be	
left	by	the	sanctions	on	Iran41.	As	the	fifth	largest	oil	producer	in	the	world,	the	Iranian	oil	industry	accounts	for	about	
20	percent	of	Iran’s	GDP42.	Both	the	embargo	and	the	virus	represent	serious	and	direct	concerns	for	the	Iranian	govern-
ment.

Then	in	August	of	2012,	only	four	months	after	the	embargo,	a	virus	named	Shamoon	struck	Saudi	Arabian	oil	

giant	Aramco.43	The	virus	was	triggered	on	a	Muslim	holiday	when	most	of	the	company’s	employees	were	absent	from	
work.	Shamoon	was	designed	to	replace	data	on	hard	drives	with	a	picture	of	a	burning	American	flag	and	report	the	ad-
dress	of	the	computer	back	to	a	separate	computer	inside	the	company	network.44	This	is	potentially	significant	because	
Aramco	is	the	world’s	largest	producer	of	oil,	and	was	originally	a	joint	effort	with	the	United	States	(Arabian	American	
Oil	Company).45,46	Additionally,	Shamoon	contained	a	function	called	“Wiper”	which	was	responsible	for	the	deleting	of	
files.	The	name	“Wiper”	and	the	shared	functionality	of	the	two	are	somewhat	suggestive.	Interestingly,	a	previously	
unheard	of	“hacktivist”	group	identifying	themselves	as	“The	Cutting	Sword	of	Justice”	took	credit	for	the	attack	and	not	
a	nation	state.	They	claim	the	virus	has	given	them	access	to	documents	on	Aramco’s	computers,	but	none	have	been	
published	yet.47	The	attack	was	believed	to	have	been	assisted	by	an	insider	at	the	company.	Another	note	of	signifi-
cance	about	Shamoon	is	that	the	text	“Arabian	Gulf”	was	found	in	the	code	which	is	pertinent	because	Iran	has	zealously	
guarded	the	title	of	the	region	as	the	“Persian	Gulf.48”

 Mathews, C., (2012 Mar. 30). Obama moves forward with Iran sanctions despite oil price spike. Re-

	Katzman,	K.,	(2012	Mar.	28).	Iran	sanctions.	Congressional Research Service Report for Congress. Re-

 Flintoff, C., (2012). Sanctions may squeeze Iran…and raise oil prices. NPR. Retrieved from http://www.

Although	Wiper	and	Shamoon	share	a	few	common	characteristics,	they	are	significantly	different.		Both	viruses	have	
been	analyzed	by	Kaspersky	Labs	who	has	concluded	that	although	Shamoon	contains	a	wiper	function	that	is	designed	
to	overwrite	data,	it	is	not	as	well-designed	as	Wiper	and	not	near	as	efficient.49		The	care	that	was	taken	by	whoever	
made	Wiper	to	insure	it	did	as	much	damage	as	possible	in	the	shortest	amount	of	time	is	what	differentiates	it	from	
Shamoon’s	wiping	feature.		Since	wiping	a	disk	with	hundreds	of	gigabytes	of	storage	can	take	an	extremely	long	time,	
Wiper	was	designed	to	target	files	with	certain	extensions	or	in	certain	folders	to	do	as	much	irreparable	damage	as	fast	
as	possible.		Kaspersky	claims	that	Shamoon	was	merely	a	copycat	virus	that	was	“the	work	of	script	kiddies	inspired	by	
the	story.”50	They	also	claim	that	Shamoon	was	probably	the	work	of	a	non-state	group	and	that	Wiper	was	most	likely	
40 
trieved from http://blogs.wsj.com/corruption-currents/2012/03/30/obama-moves-forward-with-iran-sanctions-
despite-oil-price-spike/
41 
npr.org/2012/06/30/155993909/sanctions-may-squeeze-iran-and-raise-oil-prices
42 
trieved from http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/187388.pdf
 Perlroth, N., (2012, Oct. 23). In cyberattack on Saudi firm, U.S. sees Iran firing back. The New York 
43 
Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/business/global/cyberattack-on-saudi-oil-firm-
disquiets-us.html?pagewanted=all
44 
45 
mef45ggld/1-saudi-aramco-12-5-million-barrels-per-day/
46 
nica.com/EBchecked/topic/31594/Aramco
47 
trieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/10/business/global/saudi-aramco-says-hackers-took-aim-at-its-
production.html
48 
 Perlroth, N., (2012, Oct. 23). In cyberattack on Saudi firm, U.S. sees Iran firing back. The New York 
Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/business/global/cyberattack-on-saudi-oil-firm-
disquiets-us.html?pagewanted=all
49 
from https://www.securelist.com/en/blog/208193786/Shamoon_the_Wiper_Copycats_at_Work
50 

 Ibid
 Forbes (2012). The world’s biggest oil companies. Retrieved from http://www.forbes.com/pictures/

 Encylopedia Britannica, (2013). Aramco. Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britan-

 Reuters, (2012, Dec. 9). Aramco says cyberattack was aimed at production. The New York Times. Re-

 GReAT-Kaspersky Labs., (2012, Aug. 16). Shamoon the Wiper – Copycats at Work. Securelist. Retrieved 

 Ibid

24

the	product	of	a	nation-state.51		Even	though	Shamoon	was	not	on	the	same	level	as	Wiper,	it	is	still	an	impressive	piece	
of	malware	that	was	able	to	do	damage	to	important	systems.			Whether	it	was	the	unimpressive	work	of	a	nation-state	
or	the	work	of	a	skilled	group	of	non-state	actors,	it	made	an	impact	and	had	an	effect	on	Saudi	Aramco.		

These	insights	raise	the	question	of	whether	or	not	this	was	an	isolated	attack	by	a	non-state	actor,	or	whether	it	was	
one	in	an	ongoing	series	of	salvos	between	the	Iran	and	US	cyber	communities.	Iran	certainly	possessed	the	motive	–	
retribution	for	sanctions	levied	against	it,	and	the	cooperation	by	Saudi	Arabia,	a	Sunni	Muslim	nation	which	has	been	at	
odds	with	Shiite	Iran	before.	Typically,	however,	in	an	act	of	retribution	the	attacker	invites	attribution	which	Iran	did	not.	
Also,	despite	causing	destructive	action	to	the	data	on	the	computers,	the	virus	did	not	attack	the	actual	control	systems	
and	as	a	result	did	not	manage	to	damage	oil	production.	The	relative	crudeness	of	the	code	and	use	of	the	term	“Ara-
bian	Gulf”	in	concert	with	the	insider	knowledge	of	the	hacktivist	group	“The	Cutting	Sword	of	Justice”	and	the	use	of	an	
Aramco	insider	to	facilitate	the	attack	could	suggest	that	it	was	simply	a	singular	attack	by	a	non-state	actor.	

Iran’s	doctrine	is	one	of	asymmetric	and	proxy	warfare.	It	has	been	suggested	that	Iran	used	unofficial	hacker	groups	
such	as	the	“Iranian	Cyber	Army”	to	both	defend	against	and	engage	in	attacks52.		It	is	possible	that	“Arabian	Gulf”	was	
a	red	herring	intended	to	further	obscure	the	origin	of	Shamoon.53	Using	a	proxy	to	launch	an	attack	aligns	with	Iran’s	
strategic	culture	but	the	exact	author	is	not	known.		It	is	possible	that	Iran	did	not	wish	to	engage	in	direct	conflict,	but	
intended	to	make	the	sanctions	less	viable	by	ensuring	Aramco	would	be	unable	to	supply	the	necessary	volume	of	oil.	If	
this	were	the	case	then	the	attack	would	show	a	severe	flaw	in	Iran’s	understanding	of	the	oil	production	systems	by	not	
attacking	the	control	systems,	instead,	which	should	be	unlikely	due	to	Iran’s	own	expertise	in	oil	production;	or	it	may	
have	been	intended	to	send	a	message	advertising	the	capability	while	not	crossing	a	direct	line	by	inflicting	significant	
infrastructure	damage.	This,	however,	is	pure	speculation	and	not	empirically	derived	analysis.	If	Iran	did	in	fact	orches-
trate	the	Shamoon	attack,	it	would	suggest	that	the	series	of	attacks	on	Iranian	critical	infrastructure	were	followed	by	
retaliation	on	the	American	oil	supply	chain.	This	would	indicate	an	ongoing	and	escalating	conflict	that	should	be	cause	
for	concern.

51 
 Ibid
52 
 Rezvaniyeh, F., (2010, Feb. 26) Pulling the strings of the net: Iran’s Cyber Army. PBS. Retrieved from 
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/tehranbureau/2010/02/pulling-the-strings-of-the-net-irans-cyber-
army.html
 Perlroth, N., (2012, Oct. 23). In cyberattack on Saudi firm, U.S. sees Iran firing back. The New York 
53 
Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/business/global/cyberattack-on-saudi-oil-firm-
disquiets-us.html?pagewanted=all

25

An Incident of Note

One	incident	which	appears	on	the	list	is	singular	in	that	unlike	the	other	noted	events	it	does	not	appear	to	be	

the	result	of	a	direct	cyber-attack:	the	Deepwater	Horizon	oil	spill.	On	April	20th,	the	culmination	of	severe	neglect	of	
safety	protocols	and	a	slew	of	design	and	implementation	flaws	incurred	the	worst	environmental	disaster	in	US	his-
tory.	54	While	drilling	the	Macondo	well	in	the	Gulf	of	Mexico,	the	Deepwater	Horizon	oil	rig	had	a	“blowout”	in	which	an	
uncontrolled	mixture	of	mud	and	gas	was	released	after	failure	of	pressure	control	systems.	The	gas	spread	across	the	rig	
and	is	believed	to	have	first	ignited	in	the	engine	room,	initiating	several	explosions	and	causing	the	rig	to	eventually	be	
engulfed	in	flames	and	sink.55	The	reason	the	“Deepwater	Horizon”	event	appears	on	a	list	of	“cyber-related	oil	industry	
events”	is	because,	regardless	of	the	cause,	the	incident	had	several	failures	in	networked	control	and	safety	systems	
which	could	have	prevented	the	catastrophe	from	occurring	after	the	blowout.	

The	former	chief	electronics	technician	on	the	rig,	Michael	Williams,	noted	during	testimony	before	a	govern-
ment	panel	that	the	alarms	which	would	notify	the	crew	of	a	gas	situation	was	placed	in	an	“inhibited”	mode	for	over	
a	year	because	“they	did	not	want	people	woke	up	at	3	o’clock	in	the	morning	due	to	false	alarms	[sic].”56	Additionally,	
other	monitoring	and	control	systems	intermittently	froze,	and	a	fire	and	alarm	system	was	set	to	“override	active.”		De-
spite	a	series	of	four	tests	conducted	in	the	hours	before	the	incident	to	ascertain	that	the	integrity	of	the	well,	no	alarms	
were	sounded	or	reported	directly	before	the	incident.	These	control	issues	solidify	the	idea	that	there	was	a	cyber-
component	to	the	catastrophe.		When	taken	into	the	context	of	other	events	which	occur	in	and	around	the	same	time	
period,	it	becomes	clear	that	though	there	is	no	direct	evidence	pointing	to	a	malign	threat	actor’s	involvement,	such	an	
attack	is	technically	viable.

It	is	incredibly	unlikely	that	any	state	or	non-state	actor	was	involved	in	an	attack	on	the	Deepwater	Horizon;	

however	the	circumstances	preclude	the	exclusion	of	this	possibility,	remote	though	it	may	be.		The	Blowout	Preventer	
(BOP)	was	recovered	and	forensically	examined,	but	most	other	evidence	cannot	be	examined	–	it	has	either	ceased	to	
exist	or	is	inaccessible.	The	destructive	nature	of	the	accident	and	the	apparent	corporate	neglect	makes	collecting	any	
cyber-forensic	evidence	linking	the	incident	to	an	actor	infeasible.	Most	evidence	is	destroyed,	unusable,	or	largely	inac-
cessible	at	the	bottom	of	the	ocean.			It	is	likely	that	any	control	system	audit	reports	or	logs	capable	of	providing	insight	
either	would	not	have	attributed	anomalous	activity	to	an	unidentified	APT,	or	would	not	be	comprehensive	enough	to	
provide	evidence	that	could	retroactively	suggest	an	APT.	The	audit	logs	themselves	are	dubious	due	to	allegations	that	
Transocean	and	BP	were	hastily	rushing	procedures	because	of	large	scheduling	overruns.57	Further	allegations	have	
surfaced	against	BP	employees	and	contractors	accusing	them	of	destroying	evidence	in	the	wake	of	the	disaster.58		Bear-
ing	in	mind	that	there	is	no	direct	or	forensically	sound	evidence	and	that	only	circumstantial	evidence	is	available,	the	
vignette	which	will	now	be	explored	is	the	use	case	of	the	Deepwater	Horizon	incident	as	a	cyber-attack.

Several	events	that	have	occurred	both	before	and	since	the	BP	oil	spill	suggest	that	an	attack	would	be	techni-
cally	feasible.		According	to	an	article	attributed	to	Dorothy	E.	Denning,	a	professor	of	computer	science	at	Georgetown	
University,	in	1992	a	disgruntled	former	employee	of	Chevron	intentionally	disabled	alarm	systems	at	Chevron’s	oil	refin-
eries	for	10	hours	by	“hacking	into	computers	in	New	York	and	San	José,	California.”59	While	this	only	affected	on-shore	
refineries	and	is	dated	enough	that	technical	controls	may	have	improved	since	then,	another	attack	in	2009	showed	that	
control	systems	on	off-shore	rigs	may	be	also	disabled	remotely.	Mario	Azar,	a	disgruntled	contractor	formerly	working	
for	Pacific	Energy	Resources,	sabotaged	an	offshore	oil	rig	“computer	system	that	PER	used	to	communicate	between	its	

54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 

 (David	Barstow,	2010)
 (How	the	Rig	Crew	Responded	to	the	Blowout,	2010)
 (Investigation	of	Deepwarer	Horizon	Explosion,	Mike	Williams,	2010)
 (Drilling,	2011)
 (Affairs,	2012)
 (Denning,	2000)

26

offices	and	its	oil	platforms.	The	computer	system	also	served	a	‘leak	detection’	function	for	PER.”60	The	systems	were	
disabled	from	May	8th	until	June	29th	before	it	was	noticed.61		And	as	recently	as	February	23rd	2013	an	article	in	the	
Huston	Chronicle	stated	that	“Malicious	software	unintentionally	downloaded	by	offshore	oil	workers	has	incapacitated	
computer	networks	on	some	rigs	and	platforms,	exposing	gaps	in	security	that	could	pose	serious	risks	to	people	and	the	
environment.”62 

	These	articles	would	seem	to	state	that	a	cyber-attack	on	an	off-shore	rig	is	not	only	possible,	but	a	reality.	

Complicated	control	system	attacks	such	as	Stuxnet	have	already	proven	that	even	in	conditions	where	network	access	
is	unavailable,	intelligent	viruses	can	still	perform	a	predetermined	function	at	a	designated	time.	By	extension	of	these	
occurances,	it	may	be	concluded	that	a	capable	attacker	could	manipulate	safety	control	systems	of	an	oil	rig	from	shore,	
and	do	so	through	a	sophisticated	control	system	virus	which	can	operate	even	when	not	in	contact	with	a	C2	server.

If	it	is	assumed	that	Deepwater	Horizon	was	an	attack,	it	gives	rise	to	the	question	of	attribution.	In	order	to	

attribute	an	attack	for	which	there	is	no	direct	or	forensic	evidence,	one	must	instead	turn	to	political	attribution.	This	
includes	considering	which	actors	had	the	motive,	means,	and	the	opportunity	to	perform	the	attack.	Motives	can	in	
part	be	divined	through	observation	of	the	direct	and	indirect	outcomes	of	the	event	and	its	beneficiaries.	After	narrow-
ing	the	scope	of	actors,	one	may	then	examine	the	policies,	strategic	culture,	operations,	and	tactics	of	relevant	actors	
against	different	dimensions	of	the	event	to	reveal	alignment	or	correlation.	

Immediate	and	direct	impacts	of	the	Deepwater	Horizon	oil	spill	were	as	follows:

	 A	moratorium	on	any	drilling	in	the	Gulf	of	Mexico	for	the	ensuing	6	months

	 The	Macondo	well	becoming	unusable,	at	least	in	the	immediate

	 Ecological	disaster	in	the	United	States	and	other	GoM	adjacent	countries

	 Heavy	political	damage,	fines,	and	charges	levied	against	both	BP	and	contractors	such	as	Transocean,	

Ltd.		

BP	has	been	by	far	the	biggest	figure	attached	to	the	incident.	As	of	March	2013	BP	has	been	forced	to	spend	or	
provision	$40	Billion	as	a	result	of	Deepwater	Horizon.63	To	put	this	in	perspective,	BP’s	combined	profits	for	the	years	of	
2010-2012	amount	to	about	$34.6	billion.64 

These	impacts	in	and	of	themselves	are	notable,	but	they	also	created	a	ripple	effect	of	indirect	consequences	as	

well.	These	indirect	outcomes	include	the	possible	fluctuation	in	oil	and	gas	prices	and	potential	for	geopolitical	fallout	
from	the	ecological	disaster.		Additionally	though,	and	perhaps	most	significantly,	in	2011	BP	announced	a	$38	billion	
asset	divestment	program	in	order	to	cover	the	costs	of	the	enormous	fines	incurred	by	the	Deepwater	Horizon	spill.65 So 
what	did	BP	divest,	and	to	whom?	

60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 

 (Mrozek,	2009)
 (United	States	of	America	v.	Mario	Azar,	2009)
 (Shauk,	2013)
 (Williams,	2013)
 (BP,	2012,	p.	34)
 (BP,	Financial	and	Operating	Information	2007-2011,	2011,	p.	3)

27

Sold To

Rosneft
Plains Exploration & Production
Tesoro Corp
TAQA
Anadarko Petroleum Corp
SOCAR
United Energy Group
Marubeni Group
Ecopetrol & Talisman
Apache Corp

BP
Asset

Divestment
Program*

2010-2013

Key

Upstream Assets

Downstream Assets

Countries with BP presence 
as of 2012

2010

2011

2012

2013

Deepwater Horizon Spill

This	data	would	suggest	that	one	of	the	main	beneficiaries	of	the	oil	spill	is	Rosneft,	a	state-owned	oil	company	

belonging	to	a	state	actor	which	possesses	both	a	cyber-capability	and	vested	interest	in	the	oil	industry.	It	is	the	only	
one	of	the	top	five	oil	producing	countries	yet	to	be	mentioned:	the	Russian	Federation.	In	July	of	2012	Forbes	released	
an	article	on	the	World’s	largest	oil	companies.	What	was	notable	about	the	article	was	this	quote:	“But	when	sorting	
through	the	rankings	of	the	World’s	25	Biggest	Oil	Companies	and	looking	at	who	controls	and	influences	the	biggest	of	
big	oil	one	thing	becomes	clear:	no	industry	leader	has	more	sway,	has	twisted	more	arms	or	made	more	deals	than	Rus-
sian	President	Vladimir	Putin.”	The	article	goes	on	to	point	out	the	Russian	President’s	past	use	of	Gazprom—the	state-
run	oil	giant	and	second	largest	producer	in	the	world—as	a	political	tool	and	his	vast	influence	over	other	non-Russian	
oil	companies.	Russia,	an	acknowledged	force	in	cyber	and	the	second	largest	exporter	of	oil	in	the	world,	is	markedly	
absent	in	the	last	decade	from	the	master	timeline	either	as	an	aggressor	or	as	a	target,	barring	of	a	few	leaked	emails	
by	the	Anonymous	hacking	group.	This	appears	aberrant,	even	despite	the	possible	language	barrier	mentioned	at	the	
beginning	of	this	report	or	Russia’s	tightly	controlled	dissemination	of	information.

While	clearly	the	Russian	Federation	was	the	largest	beneficiary	of	BP’s	post-spill	divestments	and	also	benefited	
from	a	halt	in	Gulf	of	Mexico	oil	production,	the	question	that	remains	is	whether	or	not	the	possible	acquisition	of	TNK-
BP	(which	would	be	difficult	to	predict)	is	motivation	enough	to	engage	in	a	risky	enterprise	such	as	a	cyber-attack	that	
results	in	a	kinetic	outcome—particularly	when	weighed	against	the	possibility	of	direct	attribution	that	could	have	far	
reaching	implications	to	relations	with	both	the	UK	and	the	US.		If	these	benefits	alone	are	not	enough,	then	what	other	
motivators	existed	which,	in	concert,	would	have	been	cause	for	Russia	to	launch	a	cyber-attack	on	a	UK	company	oper-
ating	in	the	Gulf	of	Mexico?	In	order	to	properly	answer	these	questions	many	factors	need	to	be	examined,	including:

	 the	extent	of	BP-Russian	relations	leading	up	to	and	beyond	the	Deepwater	Horizon	incident

	 Geopolitical	considerations	of	the	time

	 Any	competition	in	market-share	between	BP	and	Russian	state-controlled	oil	companies

	 Russia’s	overall	relation	to	and	dependence	on	the	oil	industry

	 Russia’s	strategic	goals	at	the	time

	 A	high-level	understanding	of	the	Russian	approach	to	cyber	warfare

28

An	interesting	relationship	between	Russia	and	BP	has	unfolded	over	the	past	decade,	revealing	a	series	of	

exchanges	that	highlight	a	tenuous	co-existence.	The	figure	below	displays	this	in	detail,	aligned	with	geopolitical	events.	
The	exchange	begins	in	2006	when	the	Russian	state-run	gas	company	Rosneft	went	public	on	the	London	stock	ex-
change	and	BP	purchased	1	billion	in	shares.	This	is	a	seemingly	straightforward	strategic	partnering;	however	there	
was	speculation	that	BP	was	“pressured	into	investing	in	order	to	secure	future	oil	exploration	rights	for	its	own	Rus-
sian	joint TNK-BP.”66	Robert	Amsterdam,	a	layer	for	the	former	head	of	Yukos	(an	oil	company	absorbed	by	Rosneft),	
was	quoted	as	saying	that	BP	“has	a	gun	held	to	its	head.”67	Then	in	June	2007,	The	Russian	government	pressures	BP	
to	sell	one	of	the	world’s	largest	natural	gas	fields	to	state-run	Gazprom	or	lose	the	license	to	develop	it.68	2008	pre-
sented	perhaps	the	height	of	tensions	when	armed	police	raided	BP-TNK’s	Moscow	offices69	in	what	appeared	to	be	an	
effort	to	intimidate	shareholders.	This	came	on	the	heels	of	speculation	that	Russia	wished	to	“buy	out	the	sharehold-
ers	of	TNK-BP	as	part	of	its	campaign	to	tighten	control	of	the	country’s	energy	assets.”70	In	a	related	vein,	the	BP-TNK	
CEO	was	forced	to	leave	the	country	after	Russian	authorities	refused	to	renew	his	visa.71	Also	in	2008,	an	important	
BP	incident	which	did	not	appear	to	directly	involve	Russia	occurred.	Off	the	coast	of	Azerbaijan	at	the	Central	Azeri	
platform	in	the	Caspian	Sea,	one	of	BP’s	off-shore	rigs	suffered	a	blowout	nearly	identical	to	that	of	the	Deepwater	
Horizon.	The	gas	did	not	ignite,	and	no	one	was	killed,	however	it	did	cost	around	$50	Million	a	day	in	losses	for	the	
Azeri	government.	BP	purposefully	kept	all	details	of	the	incident	under	close	wraps	verging	on	a	cover-up.	Then	the	
Deepwater	Horizon	event	occurs	in	2010,	followed	by	the	sale	of	TNK-BP	to	Russian	state-run	Rosneft	in	2012	as	part	
of	the	asset	divestment	program	initiated	to	pay	for	the	spill.	In	that	deal,	BP	also	purchased	shares	in	Rosneft,	upping	
their	stake	from	1.25%	to	20%	and	receiving	two	seats	on	the	board	of	directors,	including	one	which	was	awarded	to	
BP’s	current	CEO	Robert	Dudley—the	same	gentleman	who	was	forced	to	flee	in	2008	over	an	un-renewed	visa.	How-
ever,	according	to	a	Reuter’s	article	published	on	March	4th	of	this	year	“…as	a	state	appointee,	Dudley	would	have	to	
vote	by	government	directive	on	major	issues,	such	as	large	deals	and	key	appointments.”	72	This	remark	is	in	contrast	
to	another	individual	who	had	“been	nominated	as	an	independent	and	as	such	can	decide	for	himself	how	to	vote.”	73 

 (Kennedy,	2006)
 Ibid.
 (Kramer,	2007)
 (Hodgson,	2008)
 Ibid.
 (Webb,	2008)
 http://uk.reuters.com/article/2013/03/04/uk-bp-rosneft-idUKBRE92310W20130304?feedType%3DRSS

66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
%26feedName%3DbusinessNews
73 

 Ibid.

29

	
These	Russia-BP	relations	coincide	with	an	amalgam	of	geopolitical	events	not	directly	related	to	BP,	but	offering	
supporting	context	for	eventual	conclusions	drawn	about	the	Deepwater	Horizon	oil	spill.		Following	the	collapse	of	the	
Soviet	Union	in	1991,	many	of	the	state	owned	oil	and	gas	assets	were	sold	at	significantly	discounted	values	to	private	
individuals	creating	an	economic	void	for	a	fragile	new	country	already	plagued	by	monetary	issues	in	other	sectors.	
Russia	faltered	economically	for	most	of	the	1990’s	until	Vladimir	Putin	was	elected	President	in	2000	under	a	banner	of	
planned	economic	prosperity.	Putin	is	an	interesting	figure,	and	has	played	prominently	in	Russia’s	return	to	the	world	
stage.	A	former	KGB	member,	Putin	has	sought	the	consolidation	and	reclaim	of	critical	sectors	of	the	Russian	economy,	
most	notably	the	energy	sector.	Using	strong-arm	tactics	and	political	pressure,	he	has	set	the	tone	for	Russia’s	future	
policy.	In	2006,	Russia	temporarily	turned	off	the	gas	it	was	supplying	to	the	Ukraine,	inciting	conflict	and	unrest	with	
other	European	countries.		The	move	was	cast	as	an	overt	attempt	to	regulate	natural	resource	prices	for	a	market	in	
which	Russia	controls	production	and	reaps	profits	from	a	customer	base	with	limited	alternate	supply.		Russia	used	the	
tactic	again	in	2009,	shutting	off	gas	supplies	for	two	weeks	to	Ukrainian	Naftogaz	ostensibly	because	of	a	dispute	over	
contract	terms	which	had	been	negotiated	in	2002	regarding	the	appropriation	of	gas	by	Naftogas.	The	ordeal	was	only	
resolved	after	Ukraine’s	Prime	Minister	sat	down	with	Vladimir	Putin	and	renegotiated	a	new	contract	for	Russian	gas,	for	
which	she	later	received	a	7	year	sentence	on	charges	of	abuse	of	power.

These	events	serve	to	highlight	the	importance	Russia	places	on	the	energy	sector	as	both	a	vital	portion	of	its	

	
economy	and	a	potent	political	tool.	The	Russian	economy	is	heavily	dependent	on	the	oil	&	gas	industries,	with	62.7%	of	
its	economy	being	service	based	industries	in	2010.74	Many	economists	have	pointed	to	oil	and	gas	prices	as	the	Achil-
les	heel	of	the	Russian	economy.757677	This	was	made	evident	in	2008	when	oil	prices	plummeted	(as	seen	in	the	figure	
below),	sending	the	Russian	economy	spiraling	into	a	recession.	Prices	hit	a	low	in	2009,	one	year	before	Deepwater	
Horizon	and	at	a	time	when	reports	were	also	stating	that	the	overall	output	of	Russian	oil	for	2010	was	projected	to	
decline.78	This	stagnation	in	the	economy	combined	with	future	projections	of	slowed	oil	production	presented	a	huge	
threat	to	Russia,	and	it	is	likely	that	this	sentiment	resonated	with	Russian	authorities.	As	pointed	out	by	a	Forbes	colum-
nist,	a	sustained	drop	in	oil	prices	like	that	in	2008	would	mean	possible	civil	unrest	and	political	instability	–	oil	and	gas	
have	that	magnitude	of	effect.79 

			This	resonance	may	perhaps	be	seen	in	the	Russian	National	Security	Strategy	to	2020	published	in	May	of	
2009.	The	document	outlines	a	path	for	Russia	to	continue	to	regain	prominent	global	power,	and	within	it	there	are	
several	points	which	lend	credence	to	a	strategic	view	of	oil	and	gas	resources.	The	document	states	that	“the	longer-
term	focus	of	international	politics	will	concentrate	on	the	possession	of	energy	resources,	notably	in	the	Middle	East,	on	
the	Barents	Sea	shelf	and	other	areas	of	the	Arctic,	in	the	Caspian	Sea	Basin,	and	in	Central	Asia.“80		The	same	publication	

 CIA Factbook 2012
 http://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2012/04/03/oil-a-problem-for-russian-economy-official-says/
 http://www.ssb.no/a/publikasjoner/pdf/DP/dp617.pdf
 http://oilprice.com/Energy/Crude-Oil/Putin-Plays-Down-Russias-Deadly-Dependence-on-Oil-Gas-

 http://www.reuters.com/article/2009/10/14/russia-oil-production-idUSLE70186320091014
 http://www.forbes.com/sites/markadomanis/2012/12/01/russia-and-oil-a-recipe-for-preservation-of-

74 
75 
76 
77 
Revenues.html
78 
79 
the-status-quo/
80 

 Thomas, T. (2011). Recasting the Red Star. Fort Leavenworth: Foreign Military Studies Office. ,p.87.

30

also	states	that	“the	competitive	search	for	resources	does	not	exclude	the	use	of	force.”	81		Force	in	this	case	does	not	
necessarily	indicate	a	military	kinetic	action,	but	exertion	of	both	soft	and	hard	power	across	all	domains,	including	cyber.

What	follows	is	a	purely	speculative	narrative	of	one	possible	attack	scenario,	intended	to	highlight	elements	of	
Russian	doctrine	which	align	with	aspects	of	the	BP	oil	spill.	It	will	also	include	techniques	and	tools	which	provide	func-
tionality	that	makes	such	an	attack	feasible.

So	it	is	possible	that	after	the	oil	price	crash	in	2008,	Russian	officials	saw	the	danger	to	social	and	political	stabil-

	
ity	in	the	country.	Forecasts	for	Russian	oil	output	around	2009	also	suggested	that	not	only	were	prices	dropping,	but	
overall	production	would	as	well,	envisaging	the	specter	of	future	unrest	and	hardship.	Realizing	the	strategic	importance	
of	oil	and	the	success	they	had	garnered	with	previous	market	halts,	they	needed	a	way	to	either	artificially	inflate	oil	
prices,	increase	demand	for	Russian	oil,	or	increase	oil	output.	It	is	worth	noting	that	price	of	natural	gas	(another	huge	
component	of	the	Russian	economy)	is	inextricably	linked	to	oil	prices	in	most	of	Europe	during	this	period	because	gas	
is	price-indexed	against	oil.	Unlike	the	natural	gas	incidents	where	Russia	was	able	to	use	state-controlled	Gazprom	to	
halt	gas	leaving	the	country,	a	sizeable	portion	of	the	oil	leaving	the	country	was	from	privatized	companies.	It	would	be	
difficult	to	overtly	prevent	them	from	exporting	without	significant	backlash	from	international	communities	(such	as	the	
World	Trade	Organization	where	they	had	been	seeking	entry	for	some	time),	so	action	would	need	to	be	more	covert.	
One	of	the	largest	of	these	private	oil	firms	was	TNK-BP,	which	Russian	authorities	had	already	attempted	to	strong-arm	
into	government	control	as	they	had	done	with	other	smaller	oil	companies	like	Yukos.	The	other	main	exporter	of	oil	to	
Western	Europe	at	this	time	was	BP	plc,	the	50%	owner	of	TNK-BP.	Therefore,	control	of	TNK-BP	would	both	increase	oil	
revenues	and	state-output,	and	simultaneously	decrease	a	prime	competitor’s	overall	output.	It	would	also	give	them	a	
larger	political	weapon	that	could	be	used	as	a	bargaining	chip	or	to	meet	the	aforementioned	goal	of	price	control.	How-
ever,	BP	had	proven	recalcitrant	and	defiant	about	relinquishing	TNK-BP	in	spite	of	the	pressures	which	had	already	been	
applied.	A	past	rocky	relationship	with	BP	combined	with	their	recent	safety	failures	and	cover-up	in	the	Caspian	Sea	also	
made	them	a	viable	target.	

If	they	could	not	be	motivated	by	conventional	means,	then	Russia	would	have	to	revert	to	force	as	pointed	out	

earlier	in	their	National	Security	Strategy	to	2020	(“the	competitive	search	for	resources	does	not	exclude	the	use	of	
force”).	Sabotage	could	be	a	viable	option,	however	it	would	have	to	be	on	a	large	enough	scale	that	BP	would	be	put	
into	a	position	where	they	would	fold	to	Russian	interests	under	the	additional	pressure.	While	an	on-shore	explosion	
would	cause	some	delays	in	production	and	potential	loss	of	life	leading	to	litigation,	off-shore	destruction	would	have	
the	potential	to	be	significantly	more	damaging	publicly,	could	also	include	loss	of	life,	and	would	incur	significant	envi-
ronmental	fines	in	addition	to	safety	fines.	

The	question	would	then	be	where	to	strike	–	BP	holdings	in	the	Caspian	Sea	would	be	too	dangerous	as	any	fail-
ures	could	easily	implicate	Russia	and	any	success	could	cause	collateral	damage	to	Russian	oil	assets	and	coastal	regions.	
The	North	Sea	would	be	a	potentially	viable	candidate	with	multiple	countries	being	affected	resulting	in	more	economic	
impact	on	BP,	however	the	currents	are	such	that	collateral	damage	could	occur	to	other	areas	that	Russia	identified	as	
vital	fields	of	competition,	namely	the	Barents	Sea.	BP’s	other	major	developments	were	in	relatively	new	fields	in	the	
Gulf	of	Mexico	(GoM)	where	BP	planned	to	invest	heavily.	Russia	has	long	seen	(and	continues	to	see)	American	power	
as	a	dangerous	counter	to	its	own,	marking	the	US	as	its	top	global	competitor.	The	GoM	then	would	prove	very	attrac-
tive	as	it	offered	a	two-fold	bonus.		A	cash-strapped	United	States,	riddled	by	its	own	recession,	would	bear	the	brunt	of	
the	collateral	damage	resulting	in	heavy	fines	to	BP,	perhaps	made	heavier	because	of	the	state	of	the	American	econo-
my.	Secondly,	BP	would	possibly	lose	its	asset(s)	and	right	to	drill	offshore	in	the	GoM,	a	region	BP	considered	strategic.	
It	would	allow	for	an	information	influence	operation	on	the	American	public	–	poisoning	the	market	against	BP,	but	also	
potentially	against	the	American	government	if	they	repeated	any	mistakes	in	their	handling	of	an	incident	like	the	2005	
Hurricane	Katrina	rescue	and	relief	effort.

America	in	2008	and	2009	was	already	facing	internal	contention	over	deep	water	drilling	practices,	meaning	

that	a	significant	event	in	the	region	could	perhaps	halt	production	by	governmental	directive.	Even	with	the	contention,	
BP	had	already	made	history	in	the	Gulf;	in	mid-2009	the	Deepwater	Horizon	rig	finished	drilling	the	deepest	oil	well	in	
history	in	the	Tiber	Oil	Field	off	the	coast	of	Texas.	This	meant	that	one	of	the	top	competitors	for	Russian	oil	exports	was	
making	headway	in	this	region.		America	is	also	the	largest	importer	of	oil,	so	even	though	oil	prices	are	a	complicated	af-
fair	that	takes	into	account	aspects	like	the	economic	stability	of	different	regions	and	future	projections	of	demand,	any	
damaging	effects	on	American	production	or	supply	could	potentially	increase	oil	prices.	

81 

In	March	of	2009,	drilling	of	a	new	well,	Macondo,	was	approved	and	scheduled	to	begin	later	that	year,	creating	
 Ibid., p.87.

31

an	ideal	target.	Realistically,	in	a	clandestine	project	of	such	importance	it	is	likely	that	Russia	would	have	identified	sev-
eral	GoM	targets,	perhaps	alongside	BP	North	Sea	assets	as	well.	Having	the	Gulf	of	Mexico	in	mind,	Russia	now	needed	
a	method	for	delivery.	Analyzing	the	2008	incident	in	the	Caspian	Sea	which	was	still	fresh	at	this	time,	it	may	have	been	
noted	that	one	of	the	root	causes	of	the	blowout	was	a	flaw	in	the	concrete—concrete	possibly	provided	by	the	same	
US	contractor	who	worked	for	BP	in	the	GoM:	Halliburton.	They	may	have	also	surmised	that	if	the	alarms	and	safety	
systems	had	not	activated	in	the	Caspian	Sea	incident,	the	crew	may	not	have	been	capable	of	reacting	quickly	enough	to	
prevent	an	explosion,	thus	creating	a	terrible	ecological	disaster	and	causing	loss	of	life.	

So,	a	workable	option	appeared	to	be	a	covert	cyber-attack	on	rigs	operating	in	the	gulf	which	disabled	safety	
measures	or	created	a	situation	where	a	blowout	would	occur.	If	done	correctly,	they	could	easily	hide	any	attribution	
behind	China	(who	had	been	actively	stealing	secrets	from	oil	companies	at	this	time),	a	non-state	hacking	group,	a	spo-
radic	virus,	or	merely	a	glitch/accident.	Because	of	the	high	stakes	involved	in	any	attribution	to	Russia,	the	best	option	
would	be	making	it	purely	appear	to	be	an	accident	or	neglect	by	BP	and	its	contractors.	This	could	be	achieved	by	play-
ing	on	known	patterns	and	behaviors	by	BP	that	were	risky.	The	type	of	intelligence	Russia	would	have	been	intimately	
familiar	with	through	their	own	dealings	with	BP	and	analysis	of	other	BP	safety	incident	in	the	recent	past.	This	blends	
seamlessly	with	the	Russian	concept	of	“Reflexive	Control.”		

Timothy	Thomas	points	out	in	his	book	entitled	“Recasting	the	Red	Star”	the	concept	of	reflexive	control—as	
Timothy	puts	it:	“Reflexive	control	is	defined	as	a	means	of	conveying	to	a	partner	or	an	opponent	specially	prepared	
information	to	incline	him	to	voluntarily	make	the	predetermined	decision	desired	by	the	initiator	of	the	action.”82 
Purposefully	setting	false	alarms	off	in	the	early	hours	of	the	morning	so	that	someone	will	disable	them	would	be	a	
good	example	of	this.	Russian	hackers	such	as	the	GLEG	group	have	demonstrated	proficiency	in	finding	exploits	in	ICS	
software	by	releasing	the	Agora	SCADA+	exploit	kit	which	had	a	plethora	of	zero-day	exploits	in	it.83	This	demonstrative	
proficiency,	combined	with	the	previously	noted	2009	Mario	Azar	incident	would	suggest	that	the	technical	capability	to	
set	this	in	motion	was	readily	available.	After	identifying	several	targets	in	the	GoM,	Russian	operators	could	easily	have	
exploited	a	multitude	of	attack	vectors.	Employee’s	personal	systems	(which	could	have	VPN	access	to	onshore	control	
stations	or	the	rig	directly),	mobile	devices	like	smart-phones,	portable	storage	devices	such	as	usb	drives,	engineer	
laptops,	or	an	onshore	control	center	with	access	to	the	rigs	could	have	been	leveraged	to	gain	access.	Such	attacks	could	
be	trivially	done	even	with	open-source	or	free	tools	such	as	the	iconic	Metasploit	Framework.	Metasploit’s	custom	pay-
load,	Meterpreter,	for	example	is	capable	of	residing	purely	in	volatile	memory,	often	leaving	few	residual	traces	on	per-
sistent	storage,	if	any.	After	identifying	an	entry	point	such	as	social	engineering	(perhaps	too	high	profile)	or	more	likely	
exploitation,	Russian	operatives	could	find	a	series	of	servers	at	the	onshore	control	center	with	a	long	up-time	or	that	
were	not	regularly	updated	(and	therefore	not	regularly	restarted).	The	attackers	could	have	leveraged	these	to	create	
redundant	avenues	of	access	which	run	entirely	in	volatile	memory,	thus	leaving	minimal	to	no	permanent	traces.	More	
likely	and	stable	however	would	be	the	use	of	such	exploitation	to	install	a	persistent	backdoor.	From	here	they	could	
have	stolen	credentials	or	otherwise	escalated	privileges	to	gain	access	to	the	safety	systems	on	the	Deepwater	Horizon	
and	other	rigs	operating	in	the	area.	It	is	likely	that	the	same	attack	vector	would	not	have	been	used	in	every	instance	to	
obscure	any	pattern	analysis	and	diversify	opportunities	for	success.	At	this	point	setting	off	alarms	in	the	early	hours	to	
encourage	employees	to	disable	them,	impairing	other	safety	systems	and	causing	general	instability	would	have	been	
enough	to	subtly	magnify	the	effects	beyond	a	manageable	level	resulting	in	catastrophe.	

	After	having	discussed	in	some	detail	the	possibility	of	a	state	actor’s	involvement,	it	must	equally	be	considered	

that	there	is	also	plenty	of	evidence	suggesting	that	this	was	nothing	more	than	a	tragic	incident.	It	may	also	be	stated	
that	there	is	evidence	contrary	to	the	posed	scenario.	The	Deepwater	horizon	incident	and	the	2008	Caspian	Sea	incident	
before	it	were	merely	two	incidents	in	an	industry	fraught	with	others.			Additionally,	two	incidents—regardless	of	simi-
larity—are	not	conclusive	enough	to	represent	a	pattern.		Should	they	be	a	part	of	a	larger	pattern,	it	is	far	more	likely	
that	these	particular	incidents	pointed	to	a	pattern	of	corporate	neglect	than	anything	else.	The	inherently	dangerous	
nature	of	oil	refinery	work	would	imply	that	accidents	and	loss	of	life	are	an	unfortunate	reality	of	the	industry.		Accord-
ing	to	the	Centers	for	Disease	Control	and	Prevention,	“The	fatality	rate	for	oil	and	gas	workers	in	the	U.S.	between	2002	
and	2007	was	more	than	29	deaths	per	100,000	workers,	or	about	seven	times	the	average	for	all	occupations.”84		BP	is	
no	stranger	to	such	hazards.	Deepwater	Horizon,	though	perhaps	their	worst	to	date,	was	not	their	first	prolific	disaster.	
BP	was	required	to	pay	1.6	billion	dollars	in	victim	compensation	for	the	Texas	City	refinery	explosion	from	March	23,	
2005.		They	were	also	required	to	pay	50.6	million	dollars	in	fines	for	failing	to	fix	the	safety	violations	that	were	brought	
82 
83 
84 
gas/risks.html

 Recasting the Red Star
 https://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/pdf/ICSA-11-096-01.pdf
 Centers for Disease Control. (2013, March, 3). Retrieved from http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/programs/oil-

32

to	them	by	OSHA	before	the	explosion.85		These	same	corporate	failings	were	present	in	the	Deepwater	Horizon	incident	
and	were	brought	up	during	the	senate	hearings.	This	in	part	serves	to	highlight	the	fact	that	even	if	the	incident	were	to	
be	a	state-sponsored	attack,	the	impact	of	the	loss	of	a	single	rig	or	small	well	is	relatively	inconsequential	to	the	overall	
oil	production	of	the	victim.	The	timeline	of	the	Deepwater	Horizon	incident	also	speaks	volumes	–	the	incident	took	
place	over	the	course	of	at	least	a	year	and	was	the	product	of	many	budget-saving	decisions	that	were	acknowledged	
to	be	dangerous	by	the	engineers	who	were	working	on	the	Macondo	well	drilling	effort.	These	measures	and	a	culture	
of	risk	are	likely	what	ultimately	sealed	the	fate	of	the	Deepwater	Horizon.	These	occurrences	are	too	intricate	whilst	
spread	over	such	an	extended	period	of	time	for	any	one	entity	to	have	reasonably	controlled	them	all.		

It	is	within	human	nature	to	look	for	a	pattern	or	design	for	an	event	even	when	there	isn’t	any	–	this	can	be	aug-

mented	by	time	as	more	possible	“clues”	become	apparent.	For	this	reason	such	attribution	which	seeks	out	a	conclu-
sion	is	a	slippery	slope	and	must	be	approached	with	caution—it	has	a	tendency	to	entice	analysts	to	find	facts	to	fit	the	
hypothesis	as	opposed	to	a	hypothesis	which	fits	the	facts.	It’s	important	to	remember	that	correlation	does	not	equal	
causation;	in	fact	correlation	may	be	coincidental	or	the	result	of	another	unanticipated	factor.	Likewise	the	circumstan-
tial	evidence	alone	is	not	conclusive.		Between	1969	and	2005	there	have	been	over	30	separate	incidents	on	oil	rigs	
ranging	from	fires	and	explosions,	to	structural	failures,	some	of	which	were	blowouts	not	unlike	the	one	that	occurred	
on	Deepwater	Horizon.	It	is	likely	that	circumstantial	information	about	one	or	more	of	these	could	be	strung	together	to	
provide	a	reasonably	convincing	political	‘attribution.’	

Regardless	of	the	attribution	or	refutation	of	an	attack,	the	takeaway	from	the	Deepwater	Horizon	analysis	is	that	
the	oil	industry	is	undeniably	tied	to	the	cyber	domain	and	an	attack	on	this	sector	is	conceivable;	that	by	using	currently	
available	cyber	means	a	kinetic,	violent,	and	instrumental	outcome	could	very	possibly	be	affected	on	a	private	sector	by	
a	foreign	state	actor	or	other	human-based	agent	to	gain	a	favorable	outcome.

 BBC News, BP agrees to pay record 50.6m fine for Texas explosion. (2010, August, 12) http://www.bbc.

85 
co.uk/news/business-10960486

33

Conclusion

The	observation	of	a	moderately	sized	cross-section	of	cyber	events	within	the	oil	and	gas	industry	clearly	

indicates	that	there	is	ongoing	cyber	conflict.	This	conflict	exists	in	the	form	of	espionage	and	sabotage,	and	it	involves	
both	state	and	non-state	actors.	In	the	case	of	cyber	espionage,	these	actors	are	advanced	in	the	sense	that	they	have	
launched	multi-year	campaigns	which	have	gone	undetected	as	they	have	exflitrated	what	is	likely	untold	billions	of	dol-
lars	in	intellectual	property.	There	tactics	represent	a	formalization	and	ritualization	of	the	conflict	which	will	suggests	
that	it	has	been	weaponized	and	will	continue	to	escalate	in	the	future.	The	Chinese	government	is	absolutely	involved	
in	some	capacity,	and	stands	to	gain	the	most	out	if	these	transactions.	China	will	need	to	continue	to	make	aggressive	
moves	to	sustain	its	need	for	oil	going	forward	as	its	ability	to	meet	growing	demand	becomes	overwhelmed.		Red	Octo-
ber,	while	largely	targeted	at	diplomatic	entities,	also	targeted	the	oil	and	gas	industry.	The	sophistication	of	the	infra-
structure	used	in	Red	October,	as	well	as	the	methods,	suggest	a	revolution	in	the	type	of	cyber	conflict	that	will	be	seen	
in	the	oil	and	gas	industry.	A	majority	of	these	groups	are	still	active	as	of	April	2013,	even	after	being	outed	in	reports	
released	by	antivirus	and	incident	response	companies	over	the	last	few	years.	These	reports	themselves	represent	one	
aspect	in	which	non-state	actors	will	become	ever	more	important	in	cyber	conflict,	particularly	within	important	indus-
tries	such	as	oil	and	gas.	American	companies	are	particularly	vulnerable	targets	to	state-backed	or	state-owned	foreign	
competitors	who	may	in	the	future	leverage	their	countries’	cyber	forces	to	gain	competitive	advantage,	or	possible	
develop	their	own.

This	type	of	competitiveness	may	lead	to	the	types	of	sabotage	exchanges	seen	in	the	Middle	East.	These	attacks	

may	either	have	been	the	work	of	nation-states	battling	out	policy	in	the	cyber	realm,	or	unconnected	events	with	the	
Shamoon	attacks	merely	being	a	disaffected	hacktivist	group	expressing	dissent.	Regardless	of	origin,	these	exchanges	
are	clear	examples	of	cyber	conflict	of	a	destructive	nature.	Going	forward,	the	sophistication	of	the	viruses	used	in	these	
attacks	will	likely	only	increase.	Attacks	like	the	flame	and	Stuxnet	viruses	may	be	seen	by	American	companies	within	
the	industry.	The	line	between	espionage	and	sabotage	attacks	can	be	somewhat	blurred	with	viruses	being	modular	and	
having	the	capability	to	perform	both;	gathering	intel	while	waiting	undetected	to	unleash	a	more	sinister	capability.		The	
very	use	of	these	types	of	malware	breeds	and	intimacy	and	familiarity	with	them	that	allows	for	their	further	prolifera-
tion	by	the	parties	who	were	previously	attacked.	Even	if	they	cannot	reverse	engineer	them,	they	may	understand	the	
behaviors	well	enough	to	crudely	mimic	them.	

As	discussed	at	the	beginning	of	the	paper,	cyber	conflict	is	attractive.	It	is	attractive	to	criminal	elements,	corpo-
rate	elements,	individuals,	hacktivists,	state	actors,	and	other	sundry	non-state	actors	alike.	Because	of	its	low	barrier	to	
entry,	availability,	and	outsized	impact,		the	oil	industry	must	prepare	for	sustained	future	conflict	in	this	realm.

34

Appendix A - Definitions

Advanced Persistent Threat:	An	advanced	persistent	threat	(APT)	uses	multiple	phases	to	break	into	a	network,	avoid	
detection,	and	harvest	valuable	information	over	the	long	term.	These	phases	are	Incursion,	Discovery,	Capture,	and	
Exfiltration	according	to	Symantec.86

Anonymous:	A	decentralized	group	of	individuals	who	label	themselves	as	“hactivists.”		The	individuals	are	a	non-state	
sponsored	group.		The	group	frequently	picks	their	targets	based	on	current	events	or	decisions	of	companies	that	con-
flict	with	an	ever	changing	mantra	of	the	group.		The	attacks	perpetrated	by	Anonymous	are	frequently	not	complex	in	
nature	and	often	are	designed	just	to	restrict	access	to	public	websites	through	a	denial	of	service	attack.

C2: Command and Control

Cyber Warfare:	“Actions	by	a	nation-state	to	penetrate	another	nation’s	computers	or	networks	for	the	purposes	of	caus-
ing	damage	or	disruption.	“87

Dropper virus:	A	type	of	Trojan	that	serves	to	transport	and	extract	a	viral	payload	onto	the	destination	system.		The	
dropper	is	frequently	made	to	masquerade	as	an	innocuous	executable	that	once	executed	the	viral	payload	has	been	
deployed.		The	dropper	service	at	this	point	no	longer	needs	to	be	running.	88

Exfiltration:	The	opposite	of	infiltrate.	The	act	of	secretly	stealing	information	from	the	enemy’s	control.		It	is	a	form	of	
espionage.

Malware:	A	generic	term	used	to	describe	software	designed	to	cause	malicious	actions	on	a	computer	system.		Trojans,	
Viruses,	and	Worms	are	examples	of	types	of	Malware.		

Reflexive control:	“A	means	of	conveying	to	a	partner	or	an	opponent	specially	prepared	information	to	incline	him	to	
voluntarily	make	the	predetermined	decision	desired	by	the	initiator	of	the	action.”89

SCADA:	Supervisory	control	and	data	acquisition	are	a	type	of	industrial	control	system	usually	deployed	to	monitor	
systems	over	long	distances.		

Spear phishing:	The	process	of	attempting,	often	through	email,	to	acquire	someone	else’s	user	information.		This	is	
achieved	through	social	engineering	and	often	involves	sending	emails	that	appear	to	be	from	a	known	and	trusted	indi-
vidual.	

Trojan:	A	type	of	computer	malware	that	does	not	replicate,	rather	its	primary	function	is	to	allow	unauthorized	access	
to	the	computer	systems,	steal	information,	or	cause	harm	to	the	infected	system.		A	Trojan	often	presents	itself	as	an	
innocuous	file	thus	tricking	the	user	into	executing.

Virus:	A	type	of	computer	malware	that	is	able	to	self-replicate	and	infect	multiple	systems.		The	replication	is	usually	
tied	to	a	human	interaction.		

 http://www.symantec.com/theme.jsp?themeid=apt-infographic-1
 Clarke,	R	A	and	Knake,	R	K	(2010).	CyberWar, the next threat to national security and what to do about it.	New	

86 
87 
York:	Ecco/HarperCollins.
88 
mantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2002-082718-3007-99
89 

 Symantec. (2012, April 26). Trojan.Dropper. Retrieved March 9, 2013, from Symantec: http://www.sy-

 Thomas, T. (2011). Recasting the Red Star. Fort Leavenworth: Foreign Military Studies Office.

35

