Dissecting Operation Troy:  
Cyberespionage in South Korea

Table of Contents
Executive Summary 

Attack Timeline 

State Sponsorship or Cyberterrorism? 

The adversaries 

The Analysis 

The Malware  

The dropper Trojan 

MBR wiper 

The remote-access Trojan 

Linking to the Attackers 

Code Analysis  

Revealing “Operation Troy” 

Persistent espionage campaign in South Korea: 2009–2013 

Tools and tactics 

Military Espionage Malware: 2009–2013 

The encrypted network 

Data exfiltration 

The DLL relationship  

Relationships to Http Dr0pper 

Destroying the target 

The campaigns 

Conclusion 

About the Authors 

About McAfee Labs 

3

3

3
3

4

4
5

5

5

6

7

7
7

8

16
17

21

23

27

27

28

28

29

29

2

Executive Summary
South Korea was hit by a major cyberattack on March 20, 2013, at 2:00 pm local time. This cyberattack caused a 
significant amount of damage to the affected organizations by wiping the hard drives of tens of thousands of computers.

McAfee Labs research provides further insight into the likely source of these attacks. Though not definitive, our analysis 
provides a much clearer picture. The research also indicates that there may have been two distinct groups, attacking 
different targets.

Our analysis of this attack—known first as Dark Seoul and now as Operation Troy—has revealed that in addition to the 
data losses of the MBR wiping, the incident was more than cybervandalism. The attacks on South Korean targets were 
actually the conclusion of a covert espionage campaign. 

Attack Timeline
Our analysis suggests the following order of these attacks. Later in this report we mention other elements that color our 
view of this event, but consistent throughout is our belief that the attackers had access to the environments prior to 
launching the wiping component.

March 20 attack against banks and news agencies in South Korea:

1.  The remote-access Trojan was compiled January 26, 2013.
2.  The component to wipe the master boot record (MBR) of numerous systems was compiled January 31.
3.  An initial victim within the organization was spear-phished with the remote-access Trojan. This likely occurred before 

March 20, and possibly weeks prior to the attack.

4.  The dropper was compiled March 20, hours before the attack occurred.
5.  The dropper was distributed to systems across the victim organizations, and within minutes of execution the MBRs 

were wiped. This occurred around 2:00 pm Seoul time on March 20.

State Sponsorship or Cyberterrorism?
Who conducted these attacks is still unclear, but our research gives some further insight into the likely source. The clues 
left behind confirm that the two groups claiming responsibility were a fabrication to throw investigators off the trail and to 
mask the true source.

The adversaries
The two groups that appear to have been involved in the attacks have had no prior connection until now.

•	 NewRomanic Cyber Army Team. The samples connected to this group are more convincing. The majority of the wipers 

(found in the wild and retrieved from infected systems through other sources) contain the strings “principes” and 
“hastati,” which also appear in a message left on one of the targeted websites in the form of a web pop-up. The wiper 
component also overwrote the MBR with one of these strings. The following data points support this fact:
 – The strings “principes”1 and “hastati”2 were found within the code of some of the wiper components. The same 

strings were also found in the web pop-up message that was left on the Nocut News Korea website. The strings are 
ancient Roman terms that make reference to military units, hence a “cyberarmy.” The pop-up even states some of the 
specific units that were part of hastati which were involved in this attack.

 – The remote-access Trojan that was found had a build path which included the reference “Make Troy,” a subdirectory 
of the folder “Work.” Troy 3 refers to an ancient Roman region, again connecting the Roman references to this group, 
which consistently uses this theme.

3

•	 The Whois Hacking Team. On March 20, the website of the network provider LG +U was defaced by this group. Was 
it a coincidence that a second group was involved? All of the evidence indicates that they had a strong involvement, 
but there is no solid link to the group because it did not claim involvement in the attacks. However, we do have 
the circumstantial link of a wiper component that in practice operated differently from the wipers employed by the 
NewRomanic Cyber Army yet also appears to be essentially the same wiper. The Whois Hacking Team MBR wiper 
component includes the same graphics (in a resource file in the binary) that appeared on the defaced LG +U website, 
although the malware did not behave the same way. Within the main executable file, however, we discovered a small 
portion of the code that matched the structure of that of the NewRomanic Cyber Army wipers we found, so the Whois 
Team likely dropped the same wiper. 

State sponsored or not, these attacks were crippling nonetheless. The overall tactics were not that sophisticated in 
comparison to what we have seen before. The trend seems to be moving toward using the following techniques 
against targets:

•	 Stealing and holding data hostage and announcing the theft. Public news media have reported only that tens of 

thousands of computers had their MBRs wiped by the malware. But there is more to this story: The main group behind 
the attack claims that a vast amount of personal information has been stolen. This type of tactic is consistent with 
Anonymous operations and others that fall within the hacktivist category, in which they announce and leak portions of 
confidential information.

•	 Wiping the MBR to render systems unusable, creating an instant slowdown to operations within the target

The Analysis
What were the motives behind these attacks and why did the attackers chose certain targets? The attacks managed to 
create a significant disruption of ATM networks while denying access to funds. This wasn’t the first time that this type of 
attack—in which destructive malware wiped the systems belonging to a financial institution—has occurred in South Korea. 
In 2011 the same financial institution was hit with destructive malware that caused a denial of service. 

The attackers left a calling card a day after the attacks in the form of a web pop-up message claiming that the NewRomanic 
Cyber Army Team was responsible and had leaked private information from several banks and media companies. 

They also referenced destroying the data on a large number of machines (the MBR wiping) and left a message in the web 
pop-up identifying the group behind the attacks. The page title in Internet Explorer was “Hey, Everybody in Korea????”

“Hi, Dear Friends, We are very happy to inform you the following news. We, NewRomanic Cyber Army Team, verified our 
#OPFuckKorea2003. We have now a great deal of personal information in our hands. Those includes; 2.49M of        _ 
member table data, cms_info more than 50M from                                                                  . Much information from 
              Bank. We destroyed more than 0.18M of PCs. Many auth Hope you are lucky. 11th, 12th, 13th, 21st, 23rd and 
27th HASTATI Detachment. Part of PRINCIPES Elements. p.s For more information, please visit www.dropbox.com login 
with joseph.r.ulatoski@gmail.com::lqaz@WSX3edc$RFV. Please also visit pastebin.com.”

The Malware 
A few types of malware were involved in these attacks. Each variant had a particular use. Some public reports mentioned 
only the use of the wiper component; however, there were actually three components, all with a different purpose, that 
assisted the attackers in the campaign.

Component

Dropper Trojan

MBR Wiper

Purpose

File Size 

Compile Date

Installs the MBR wiper

Wipes the MBR of the disk

418KB

24KB

46KB

March 20, 2013

January 31, 2013

January 26, 2013

Remote-Access Trojan

Provides backdoor access to attackers

Table 1: Elements of the attack on South Korean targets. 

4

There were two subsequent aspects to this attack:

•	 The destruction of PCs using the MBR wiper component. Occurred March 20.
•	 Remote access to the targets’ environments for a period prior to the attack. The duration of this access is unknown.

The dropper Trojan
The dropper Trojan was primarily used to download the executable that destroyed the systems’ MBRs. We suspect that the 
dropper Trojan was distributed at the time of the attacks via a compromised patch-management server that pretended to 
run a legitimate update.

The dropper Trojan was compiled March 20, the day of the attack and several hours prior to the destruction of the 
systems. We suspect that the attackers had access to the target environment prior to March 20. It is unlikely that a large 
volume of users (some 30,000+) were spear-phished on March 20 alone. 

It’s likely a much earlier compromise led to the attacks’ being staged internally. Thus, there was an initial victim whose 
infected system allowed the attackers to gain access to other systems that let them distribute the malware broadly. 
The initial infection certainly could have come from a spear-phishing attack. The backdoor component was compiled in 
late January. The attackers could have been inside the networks since February. This timeline is plausible given that the 
attackers claim to have stolen a vast amount of information from these networks prior to wiping the MBRs.

Our further analysis led us to discover additional components that support our conclusion:

•	 A remote-access Trojan was discovered to have compromised some of the target environments, specifically an internal 

server used to distribute updates to thousands of PCs. This Trojan variant was compiled January 26, and was detected by 
the security industry on March 25. McAfee detects this threat as RDN/Generic PWS.y!io. This Trojan was built with the 
Microsoft Visual C++ Version 2.9 compiler with a file size of 47KB.

MBR wiper
We have seen several wiper samples to date; all were compiled January 31. The wiper itself is relatively small (24KB) and is 
introduced into the environment via a dropper Trojan that is 418KB and was compiled the day of the attacks.

Upon executing the malware, the main dropper (9263e40d9823aecf9388b64de34eae54) creates the file AgentBase.exe, 
the MBR wiper component. This file is placed in the infected user’s application data folder, executes, and immediately 
starts the countdown to wipe the system and render it unbootable. This file was compiled approximately two months prior 
to the attack’s taking place. 

The main dropper component was compiled the day of the attack, March 20, at 4:07 am Seoul time. The dropper installed 
the wiper, which destroyed the MBRs at around 2:00 pm Seoul time. Once the dropper executed, the system were wiped 
within minutes. Thus, these components likely weren’t distributed until the time when the attackers wished to destroy 
these machines. 

The remote-access Trojan
It’s not widely known that the attackers used a remote-access Trojan to compromise an internal server. The attackers used 
this internal server to distribute the wiper component to the thousands of PCs. The remote-access Trojan had a file size of 
46KB and was compiled on January 26, five days before the MBR wiper was compiled.

As we concluded earlier, we have determined that the attackers had access to the environment prior to wiping the 
systems. The remote-access Trojan was likely delivered to an internal PC via a spear-phishing campaign. From this system 
the attackers accessed other internal resources. The Trojan was designed to operate within Internet Explorer; it launched a 
hidden instance of Internet Explorer and injected itself into the running process.

5

Figure 1. The process monitor shows the remote-access Trojan spawning an instance of Internet Explorer.

The Trojan immediately modified the properties in the registry to allow for remote connections to the system.

Linking to the Attackers
Linking malware to its developers isn’t always an easy task. Most attackers are careful enough to ensure they can’t be 
traced. This is especially important in cases such as cyberespionage, in which the intent is to remain invisible. 

In our analysis we observed a number of unique attributes in the components involved in these attacks; these markers 
allowed us to link specific samples to a specific group.

Two groups have taken credit for these attacks, but we can tell that the variants which wiped the systems link to the 
NewRomanic Cyber Army Team.

Although the Whois Hacking Team is more public due to its defacement of the network provider LG +U’s website, we can 
link this group to only one sample of a wiper, which operates differently than the others. The Whois wiper is much larger, 
with a file size of 236KB and was compiled March 19, whereas the other wiper components are a mere 24KB. The larger 
size suggests the Whois wiper contains more functions. Thus, we can definitively link NewRomanic to the samples used 
to wipe the MBRs of systems within the South Korean financial institution networks. NewRomanic will remain the prime 
suspect involved in the attacks.

Confirming the link between NewRomanic and known wiper samples, we found a number of wiper samples contained 
either the string “hastati” or “principes” in the calling cards left by the attacker.

Sample MD5

Compilation Date

Detection Name

db4bbdc36a78a8807ad9b15a562515c4

5fcd6e1dace6b0599429d913850f0364

f0e045210e3258dad91d7b6b4d64e7f3

January 31, 2013

January 31, 2013

January 31, 2013

KillMBR-FBIA

KillMBR-FBIA

KillMBR-FBIA

Table 2: Wiper samples connected to the NewRomanic Cyber Army Team.

6

Not only did most of the wiper samples link to NewRomanic, but the remote-access Trojan can also be linked to the group. 
The Trojan contained a build path that mentions Troy in the directory path, again consistent with the ancient Roman 
references used by this group.

 

Figure 2. The remote-access Trojan names Troy. This reference links the attack to the NewRomanic Cyber Army Team.

Code Analysis 
It is highly unusual that two groups claim responsibility for these attacks. No further information has been revealed as 
to who they are or what their motivations are; this is another reason to suspect that these two groups are the same and 
are actually fabricated. The supporting evidence comes in the form of code analysis determining the degree of similarity 
between the samples.

The Whois Hacking Team sample was compiled March 19 at 1:57 pm local time and the NewRomanic dropper was 
compiled March 20 at 4:07 am local time. The attacks on South Korean banks and media and the defacement of LG +U 
occurred approximately 2:00 pm local time on March 20.

McAfee Labs investigated the differences between the two samples at a code level to determine if there were any 
similarities. In spite of the fact that the wiper component originating from NewRomanic Cyber Army Team was 24KB in 
size and the component from Whois was 236KB, we did find similarities within the code. The Whois sample is a dropper 
for a component that closely resembles the one used by the NewRomanic Cyber Army. We found a significant number 
of matching subroutines and a large number of code segments with only minor differences. These similarities lead us to 
conclude that the payload code is based upon the same initial code and was embedded into different droppers.

Whois Sample

NewRomanic Sample

# of Different Functions

_alloca_probe

_alloca_probe

exact match

sub_4078C0

sub_4030A0

loc_404f54

loc_4033a1

loc_4065f4

start

sub_402D02

sub_407c7a

sub_4083F5

sub_403770

loc_40291F

loc_302f40

loc_403169

loc_4084ee

loc_403694

sub_401870

sub_407BC9

sub_402DB3

sub_40327D

sub_409980

Table 3: Partial analysis of subroutine differences.

15

17

1

exact match

exact match

131

0

10

4

exact match

Revealing “Operation Troy”
Persistent espionage campaign in South Korea: 2009–2013
Public reports covering what is known as the Dark Seoul incident, which occurred on March 20, 2013, addressed only the 
MBR wiper components. Many of the details of this incident have been examined, and most analysts conclude this was an 
isolated, though clearly coordinated, attack. However, McAfee Labs has found that there was more to the incident than 
what was widely reported. Our analysis has revealed a covert espionage campaign. 

Typically this sort of advanced persistent threat (APT) campaign has targeted a number of sectors in various countries, but 
Operation Troy, as these attacks are now called, targets solely South Korea. 

7

From our analysis of unique attributes within the malware samples we have determined that the initial code behind the 
“Troy” family of Trojans was created in 2010, as was another component that was dropped by the Trojan HTTP Troy. The 
malware used in these attacks were compiled to specifically target South Korea and used Korean-language resources in 
the binaries. The malware connected to legitimate Korean domains that were running a bulletin board and sent a specific 
command to a PHP page to establish an IRC channel and receive commands.

Espionage Campaign

Operation Troy—Domestic Spying Period

Dark Seoul

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

March 20,

2013

US/South 
Korean 
Military 
Attacks

Chang
EagleXP
NSTAR

HTTP Troy
Mail Attack

Http Dr0pper
Tong

Concealment Troy
MBR Wiper
3Rat Client
TDrop

DDoS Attacks

10 Days of Rain

Media/Broadcast 
Attacks

Financial Industry 
Attacks

Suspected Link

Solid Link

Highly Probable Link

Figure 3. The targeted attack Dark Seoul reached its culmination in March 2013, but its roots go back at least to 2009, when the Trojan’s 
source code was first compiled. Subsequent variations of the malware have also been involved in these threats. 

McAfee Labs has determined that domestic espionage activities occurred before the March 20 attacks, most likely to gain 
intelligence regarding the targets to carry out further attacks (such as the March 20 incident) or to benefit the attackers in 
some other ways. This spying operation had remained hidden and only now has been discovered through diligent research 
and collaboration. We also suspect the attackers had knowledge of the security software running within the environment 
before they wiped the systems, given that some of the variants used in the attack were made to look as if they were 
antimalware update files from before March 20. 

The attackers who conducted the operation remained hidden for a number of years prior to the March 20 incident by 
using a variety of custom tools. Our investigation into Dark Seoul has found a long-term domestic spying operation 
underway since at least 2009. The operation, all based on the same code, has attempted to infiltrate specific South 
Korean targets. We call this Operation Troy, based on the frequent use of the word Troy in the compile path strings in 
the malware. The prime suspect group in these attacks is the New Romanic Cyber Army Team, which makes frequent 
use of Roman and classical terms in their code. While analyzing malware components from before the March 20 incident 
we found both similar and identical attributes of the files involved that enable us to link them to the 3Rat remote 
administration tool client used on March 20 as well as to samples dating to 2010. Furthermore, we determined that 
through prior access to the victims’ networks, the attackers were able to upload the MBR wiper component and distribute 
it. It is also possible that the campaign known as 10 Days of Rain is a byproduct of Operation Troy; some of our analysis 
suggests that the malware Concealment Troy was present in these attacks.

Tools and tactics
NSTAR: 2010–2011 
NSTAR appears to be the first production version of the Troy family. This Trojan is based upon malware created for a 
military espionage campaign that first emerged in 2009. NSTAR is the first to use components in the same way that later 
variants of the Troy family do. It included a shared DLL (bs.dll) that was found in the 2010 and 2011 variants. Later variants 
use a modified version, HTTPSecurityProvider.dll, which employs nearly the same file-mapping function as used by bs.dll. 
Most of these variants are compiled from the Work directory; that’s fairly consistent throughout all versions. The DLL was 
compiled using Microsoft Visual C++ Version 6. Those iterations were found in 2010-2011. 

8

The call graph generated for NSTAR’s bs.dll is identical with that of HTTP Troy. They were compiled at least a year apart 
from each other.

Figure 4. Call graph for bs.dll from the NSTAR variant of the Troy Trojan.

Figure 5. Call graph for bs.dll from the HTTP Troy variant.

The DLL was compiled March 3, 2011, and includes an OCX component that was compiled in late 2010. The OCX used a 
very different compile path, but bs.dll, the backdoor, is essentially the same as those seen in later versions. 

The Work directory, with path shown below, is also used with Troy variants Concealment Troy and 3Rat Client, which were 
both compiled in 2013.

E:\Work\BackUp\2011\nstar_1103\BackDoor\BsDll-up\Release\BsDll.pdb

9

We also found a file-mapping function in this variant similar to those in most of the newer versions. The unique string 
beginning with “FFFFFFF” is identical and occurs throughout the later variants.

Figure 6. NSTAR’s file-mapping function.

The malware establishes an IRC channel to receive real-time commands in the same manner as the military 
espionage malware. 

Figure 7. NSTAR communicates with its control server via HTTP as its primary channel.

Chang and EagleXP: 2010
Another variant from 2010, EagleXP, is closely related to NSTAR and HTTP Troy based on reused components. EagleXP 
used this compile path: 

D:\VMware\eaglexp(Backup)\eaglexp\vmshare\Work\BsDll-up\Release\BsDll.pdb

Again we see the Work directory involved as in the other post-2010 malware used in this campaign. A variant compiled 
May 27, 2010, also contained a very similar compile path. We were able to obtain some traffic from the control server.

D:\\Chang\\vmshare\\Work\\BsDll-up\\Release\\BsDll.pdb 

The May 27 variant, called Chang, operated in the same manner as other Troy variants and used the same bs.dll. A Korean 
manufacturing website hosted both the control server and an IRC server.

Figure 8. Outbound traffic from an infected system.

Figure 9. The malware establishes a channel with the control server via IRC.

Both the Chang and EagleXP variants are based on the same code that created NSTAR and later Troy variants. These 
similarities confirm the attackers have operated for more than three years against South Korean targets.

10

Inside the IRC botnet

Troy Botnet

Toneharbor.com

Nowq.net

Sujewha.com

Traveler.foxlink.com

Dong.a.jp

Hanja.edu.com

Qitaegyo.com

Babcom-h1.bluethunder.co

HTTP
 Troy

Lawbookcenter.co.kr

Solarshare.co.kr

Byonshop.com

Dochang.pe.kr

NSTAR

TDrop

Http

Dr0pper

Tong

Delmundo.kr

Theumin.net

Gcglobal.com

Apsumo.co.kr

Concealment 

Troy

Mupa.co.kr

Figure 10. The malware family and its control servers.

During our investigation we dug into the attackers’ controlling botnet, which was used until 2013. The infrastructure 
relied upon on a network of hacked South Korean websites hosting IRC servers. The infected clients in turn communicated 
with the IRC servers using RSA encryption and used functions imported from the Microsoft Cryptography API library. 

Figure 11. Some functions imported from the Microsoft Cryptography API.

11

The attackers hardcoded the control domains in bs.dll and distributed it in the final compiled Trojan code. Each variant 
of each generation of Trojans contained different hardcoded strings pertaining to the control servers. This shows that 
the attackers first compromised the future IRC server sites and then compiled the component and distributed it to 
infected targets.

Figure 12. Hardcoded addresses in bs.dll.

The nickname for the bot can be determined by the outbound traffic and information written to the Windows registry. One 
variant operating in June 2010 used the nickname BS^000C2918AB11 with the password wodehaopeng. The malware 
joined the IRC channel #god and sent several private messages to what was likely the control server to receive instructions. 

PRIVMSG X^111112352643[1] :

A5TbaKuqCO641tirNl51rFLdNHeUhMbUiJ93sO5rip9X7AZG0Y8rlZVmItEEfDrmNL19OpJrv2khO5WbflTqxs7FVgzUNfdvtnjbObWeNNVPlF/yXPQIEDj/4YnidGDAq
p7m8lFpnC2Pyz2+6OOooEUMqG6rKImyFQLM/V7K69E=

Variant

Http Dr0pper

HTTP Troy

TDrop

NSTAR

Tong

EagleXP

Chang

Bot IRC Nickname

YN^000E0C3CB868

B9^E02E29C4

TE02E29C

H^E02E29C4

CO^000E0C2892FA

B3^000C2918AB11

X^000C295C5DEC

Table 4: IRC bot nicknames used by variants.

HTTP Troy: 2011
In 2011 the attackers created the Trojan HTTP Troy, named from its compile path string; this was the first of the Troy family 
of Trojans. To date we have found only one sample of HTTP Troy. Upon execution the malware launches a crippled GUI 
that allows the victim to install a screen saver displaying politically sensitive images. We don’t know why the developers 
took the risk of making the Trojan visible. The screensaver component (chonanship.scr) is not malicious and was compiled 
on December 12, 2010. It contained images related to the sinking of the South Korean Navy ship Cheonan.4 HTTP Troy 
was compiled on March 20, 2011, and contained the compile path Z:\source\1\HttpTroy\BsDll-up\Release\BsDll.pdb. As we 
can see, HTTP Troy uses the same DLL as the NSTAR, Chang, and EagleXP variants did in 2010. This path was contained in 
a dropped DLL component that was used to establish a hidden IRC channel to the attackers’ control server. The primary 
dropper file for this remote-access Trojan was disguised as AhnLab’s Smart Update Utility setup program. The original 
filename was SUpdate.exe. 

After executing, the remote-access Trojan makes a connection to sujewha.com, the IRC control server. 

Figure 13. HTTP Troy communicates with its control server via IRC.

12

Http Dr0pper: 2012
We found a second-generation Trojan based on HTTP Troy that included the compile path Z:\1Mission\Team_Project\
[2012.6~]\HTTP Troy\HttpDr0pper\Win32\Release. This Trojan, Http Dr0pper, was compiled in 2012 from the HTTP Troy 
directory, indicating it is an advancement of the original HTTP Troy. 

All of the variants from this point reuse a specific DLL, which in some instances is named HTTPSecurityProvider.dll and uses 
the Microsoft Cryptography API to secure communications. We can track the reuse of this DLL based on the consistent 
file-mapping function that appears throughout the variants.

Figure 14. The malware Http Dr0pper using the same file-mapping function and DLL as other versions.

We can determine that another variant, Tong (based on the directory in which it was compiled), also reuses this DLL and 
contains the same function.

Figure 15. The malware Tong using the same file-mapping function and DLL as other versions.

Furthermore, variants such as Concealment Troy that were compiled in 2013 contain the same function once decoded. 
Still, some of the base code is reused in the supporting DLL for Concealment Troy.

Figure 16. The malware Concealment Troy using the same function (encoded function shown).

After execution the Trojan makes a connection to the control server using specific parameters that include the IRC 
nickname. This communication pattern is consistent with other variants that reference Troy.

Figure 17. Communicating with the control server.

Tong: 2012
The Tong variant contains the compile path E:\Tong\Work\Op\1Mission\Team_Project\[2012.6~]\HTTP Trojan 2.0\HttpDr0pper\
Win32\Release. It also communicated using the same methods. This Trojan was compiled on August 28, 2012.

Figure 18. Tong communicating with its control server.

13

Compile Date

Compile Path

July 4, 2012

July 7, 2012

August 28, 2012

August 29, 2012

Z:\1Mission\Team_Project\[2012.6~]\HTTP Troy\HttpDr0pper\Win32\Release\3HttpDropper.pdb

Z:\1Mission\Team_Project\[2012.6~]\HTTP Troy\HttpDr0pper\Win32\Release\HttpSecurityProvider.pdb

Z:\1Mission\Team_Project\[2012.6~]\HTTP Troy\HttpDr0pper\Win32\Release\HttpSecurityProvider.pdb

Z:\1Mission\Team_Project\[2012.6~]\HTTP Troy\HttpDr0pper\Release\HttpSecurityProvider.pdb

Table 5: Components dropped by Tong.

TDrop: 2013
TDrop is the third generation of HTTP Troy. TDrop uses one of two DLL files, payload32.dll and payload64.dll, and injects 
one, depending on operating system, into svchost.exe. Previous versions used bs.dll, which contained the code for 
communicating with the IRC botnet. TDrop has some further functionality not present in HTTP Troy that extends this 
Trojan’s ability to operate on 64-bit machines and to evade automated analysis systems and emulation technologies. 

The evasion routines check for the presence of debuggers and tracers that attach to the parent process. This effectively 
causes the parent process to immediately terminate when under analysis by emulation or sandboxing systems that attempt 
to hook and monitor API calls coming from that process.

Figure 19. The antidebugging feature in payload32.dll.

Furthermore, TDrop uses a DLL to run under nonprivileged accounts on Windows 7. This variant was compiled on January 
15, 2013, and contained the compile path D:\Work\Op\Mission\TeamProject\[2012.11~12]\TDrop\Dropper32\Release\
Dropper.pdb. The main executable, which extracts the other components, was compiled from the path Z:\Work\v3zip\
misc.c and Z:\Work\v3unzip.c. This is likely a compression tool to extract the files to the desktop.

Just as Http Dr0pper, TDrop uses the disguised dropper component AhnlabUpdate.exe. The unique code is nearly identical 
to that used in Http Dr0pper with the exception of the last two characters.

Figure 20. TDrop reusing code from Http Dr0pper.

14

When the main Trojan file executes, it launches RunCmd.exe, which itself doesn’t appear to be malicious. RunCmd.exe 
then launches AhnlabUpdate.exe based on the specified filename in the associated RunCmd.ini file. These files are created 
in the directory 114719_507_AhnlabUpdateKit, which sits in a temp directory created on the desktop. It is obvious that 
the attackers were aware of the security product that the target environment used and attempted to make the malware 
appear as legitimate as possible. AhnlabUpdate drops and runs an additional executable, which is the RAT payload that 
establishes a connection with the control server.

Main.EXE

RunCmd.exe

AhnlabUpdate.exe

~ERC6C8.tmp

Figure 21. TDrop disguises its presence by appearing to be a security product.

Concealment Troy: 2013
Another third-generation Troy family Trojan is Concealment Troy. This version was compiled from the same directory as the 
3Rat client found in the victims’ environments on March 20. Some components from Concealment Troy suggest that the 
source code was originally written in 2010 and was later compiled for use in this campaign. The 64-bit component to install 
the backdoor on the victims’ systems contains an interesting compile path and was first created on November 28, 2012.

C:\test\BD_Installer_2010\x64\Release\BD_Installer_2010.pdb

The 32-bit version was compiled January 23, 2013, and contained this compile path:

Z:\\Work\\Make Troy\\Concealment Troy\\Exe_Concealment_Troy(Winlogon_Shell)\\SetKey_WinlogOn_Shell_Modify\\BD_Installer\\Release\\BD_Installer.pdb

Component

Compile Path

BDInstaller1

BackdoorEXE

BackdoorDLL

BDInstaller2

MainDropper2

Z:\\Work\\Make Troy\\Concealment Troy\\Exe_Concealment_Troy(Winlogon_Shell)\\SetKey_WinlogOn_Shell_Modify\\
BD_Installer\\Release\\BD_Installer.pdb
Z:\\Work\\Make Troy\\Concealment Troy\\Exe_Concealment_Troy(Winlogon_Shell)\\Concealment_Troy(exe)\\Release\\
Concealment_Troy.pdb
Z:\\Work\\Make Troy\\Concealment Troy\\Exe_Concealment_Troy(Winlogon_Shell)\\Dll\\Concealment_Troy(Dll)\\
Release\\Concealment_Troy.pdb
Z:\\Work\\Make Troy\\Concealment Troy\\Exe_Concealment_Troy(Winlogon_Shell)\\SetKey_WinlogOn_Shell_Modify\\
BD_Installer\\Release\\BD_Installer.pdb
None

MainDropper3

None

Table 6: Compilation timeline for Concealment Troy. 

Compile Date 
(all 2013)
January 23

February 4

February 22

February 22

February 22

February 23

15

Concealment Troy does not employ real-time IRC control as earlier versions did. (Concealment Troy is a typical 
HTTP botnet.)

Figure 22. Concealment Troy abandons the use of IRC for real-time control and uses HTTP as its primary channel.

Military Espionage Malware: 2009–2013
McAfee Labs has uncovered a sophisticated military spying network targeting South Korea that has been in operation 
since 2009. Our analysis shows this network is connected to the Dark Seoul incident. Furthermore, we have also 
determined that a single group has been behind a series of threats targeting South Korea since October 2009. In this 
case the adversary had designed a sophisticated encrypted network designed to gather intelligence on military networks. 
We have confirmed cases of Trojans operating through these networks in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2013. This network 
was designed to camouflage all communications between the infected systems and the control servers via the Microsoft 
Cryptography API using RSA 128-bit encryption. Everything extracted from these military networks would be transmitted 
over this encrypted network once the malware identified interesting information. What makes this case particularly 
interesting is the use of automated reconnaissance tools to identify what specific military information internal systems 
contained before the attackers tried to grab any of the files.

August 21, 2010 
Military Attacks

October 21, 2009 
Military Attacks

take.chu.jp

seung.us

sarangbang.us

christkingchurch.us

January 13, 2013 
Military Attacks

February 28, 2011 

Military Attacks

djuna.cine21.com

strider.pe.kr

dochang.pe.kr

kairoshairstory.com.au

ejiweb.com

dennisoneil.net

daeilho.net

Figure 23. Encrypted data exfiltration network.

16

The attacks would have occurred in four general stages:

•	 Initial compromise via a “watering-hole attack,” which would lead to the exploitation of the internal systems (in the 
2009 case). (The attacker placed a zero-day exploit on a military social networking site.) Later cases were likely spear 
phishing to more quickly get to the right targets.

•	 Malware automatically performs recon on target systems looking for documents of interest. Malware can also scrape out 

passwords and registry information along with directory listing of interesting files.

•	 The attacker can request directory contents from infected systems based on the number of interesting files found. Can 

selectively grab specific files as needed.

•	 Stolen files are transmitted via HTTP-encrypted channel to the attacker’s server.

The encrypted network
The attacker’s encrypted network uses Microsoft’s Cryptography API library Version 1.0 to encrypt communication 
channels to the control servers over both HTTP and IRC. The encryption uses a 128-bit RSA key, shown as imported and 
used by the following code.

Figure 24. Function to call the Cryptography API library.

17

Figure 25. RSA encryption key used to camouflage communications.

This network operates over both HTTP and uses IRC as secondary channel for real-time operations. The IRC network is based 
on the open-source library libircclient5 and everything sent over this IRC channel is encrypted via the Cryptography API.

Figure 26. Establishing an IRC channel session.

The following commands are supported by IRC to control infected systems in real time. This functionality enables the 
attacker to send and receive files on demand and execute remote commands. The messages sent between client and 
servers are base64 encoded and then encrypted using the Cryptography API; thus a message must be decoded and 
decrypted to be visible. This highly sophisticated method provides for great flexibility over a secure encrypted channel 
that is not SSL.

•	 Get bot version and uptime
•	 Get directory file listing, all drives or from specific path
•	 Stop activities for a given period
•	 Download file 
•	 Send local file to the server
•	 Execute shell command
•	 Connect to IRC server
•	 Change nick (IRC)
•	 Join channel (IRC)
•	 IRC disconnect
•	 Remove bot from system

18

Figure 27. Functions for IRC commands.

The HTTP portion is designed to get configuration data used in the IRC botnet and to send stolen documents back to the 
control server.

Figure 28. HTTP Get command with parameters.

19

Figure 29. HTTP Get command continued.

Figure 30. HTTP Get command continued.

20

The encrypted network operates by scanning infected systems and categorizing those systems that contain interesting 
documents. The malware does not extract every document that is found as a match through drive scanning; rather it 
assigns a unique signature to the infected system according to what it contains. Less interesting systems are less likely to 
have documents extracted from them. The directory contents are uploaded to the attacker’s server, which lets the attacker 
grab documents at will and keeps the amount of network traffic low.

Data exfiltration
The theft of classified information is the primary purpose of this network and would occur through drive scanning. 

Drive scanning locates classified information on target systems and gives the attacker an overall idea of what these military 
networks have. The malware searches the root disk, counts the number of interesting files, and determines the level of 
that system’s importance to the attacker. The search criteria are primarily specific file extensions and keywords in document 
titles. The keywords are all military specific. Some refer to specific military units and programs that operate in South Korea. 
This function would determine only the number of interesting files that are contained on any given system; another 
function would extract the list of files that match these search criteria.

Figure 31. The drive scan function.

21

In addition to searching for English keywords, the function searches for Korean ASCII characters that represent a subset of 
military terms. Most keywords specific to military operations in South Korea are in English. There is also a set of abbreviations.

Figure 32. Google translation of ASCII characters.

22

The files to be sent to the attacker’s server are zipped using the open-source Zip Utils.6 The component uses the password 
“dkwero38oerA^t@#.” We have consistently found this password in the malware dating back to 2009. It is used primarily 
to archive items to be stolen from infected systems.

Figure 33. The function to zip stolen documents.

The DLL relationship 
In all of these threats we have seen the consistent use of bs.dll, a stripped down version of ip6ld.dll, which we have found 
in the military espionage cases. We can connect not only similar functions within bs.dll from 2011 to date with those of 
the military cases in 2009 and 2010, but also the shared encryption key for zipping classified information to be sent to the 
control server.

This ip6ld.dll is the same as another file, ~81923.dll; both operate in the same manner. Bs.dll appears to be used primarily 
for IRC botnet communications.

The component bs.dll has been seen in a number of Troy-era malware samples: Chang, EagleXP, NSTAR, Mail Attack, 
HTTP Troy, Tong, Http Dr0pper, etc. The file Ip6ld.dll, which contains much of the logic described in these attacks, shares 
a number of common functions with bs.dll, including the zip encryption password. In addition, the IRC and encryption 
functions are the same in both files, indicating they were built by the same individual or group. The two functions are likely 
the same source code in different versions. The primary difference between them is bs.dll’s lack of searching for specific 
extensions and terms that Ip6ld.dll and ~81923.dll contain. This suggests bs.dll requires a second module and we have 
seen that with the Mail Attack variant, compiled in February 2011, which contained both bs.dll and payload.dll, with the 
latter containing the military-specific search and extraction functions.

23

Figure 34. The bs.dll function to scan all drives based on a specified extension.

The following function found in bs.dll lists the contents of specified directories and zips those contents into an archive file 
with a password. This function doesn’t have any criteria and is likely disabled in some cases, such as with HTTP Troy, which 
downloads a payload module to search for data.

Figure 35. A bs.dll function to list and send directory contents.

24

Figure 36. A bs.dll function to send directory contents to remote server.

Payload.dll appears to combine both drive searching and directory listing into a single function. A separate action puts the 
directory contents into a separate file and prepares it to be sent to the remote server.

Figure 37. A payload.dll drive-search function.

25

Figure 38. A function to zip contents.

26

Relationships to Http Dr0pper
We have determined that some variants of Http Dr0pper will execute payload32.dll, which is essentially the same DLL 
that is found in TDrop. This component contains military keywords. One variant of Http Dr0pper made use of payload32.
dll, which was compiled on August 23, 2012. The TDrop version was compiled January 13, 2013. This consistency 
confirms further that the operations against South Korea are primarily focused on military intelligence gathering and have 
attempted to break in since 2009.

Destroying the target
The espionage malware has the capability to destroy systems in the same way that the March 20, 2013, attacks disabled 
thousands of systems in South Korea. This capability could be devastating if military networks were to suddenly be wiped 
after an adversary had gathered intelligence. This was clearly the case with the March 20 Dark Seoul incident, in which we 
confirmed that the 3Rat Trojan gained access prior to the MBR-wiping event. There was at least one limitation, however: 
We found the malware of February 2011 could wipe its targets only if it detected that it was being debugged or analyzed 
by a security product.

Figure 39. The malware’s function to wipe the MBR.

27

The campaigns
Through our research we have discovered a number of distinct subcampaigns as part of the overall Operation Troy, which 
has targeted military forces in South Korea to extract classified information. These operations were designed to occur in 
2009 through 2013. Recently we uncovered evidence to suggest that they continued just prior to Dark Seoul. We can link 
the actor(s) responsible for Dark Seoul to these particular espionage campaigns through various technical means. 

•	 The Troy-era malware is based on the same source code to create these specialized versions (components shared over 

the years).

•	 The zip encryption password is found in almost all instances, with the exception of Concealment Troy.
•	 Consistent terms in the malware compile paths (for example, Troy, Work, etc.).
•	 The same IRC botnet channel and encryption method are used throughout the variants.
•	 Military keywords are consistently found through the components spanning 2009–2013, confirming the intent of 

this adversary.

•	 Use of the same string-obfuscation techniques in the 2009–2010 campaigns and the 2012–2013 campaigns.

Malware from 2009 

Military Attacks

Malware from 2010 

Military Attacks

Malware from 2011 

Military Attacks

Malware from 2012 

Military Attacks

Malware from 2013 

Military Attacks

dkwero38oerA^t@#

Mail Attack

HTTP Troy

NSTAR

Chang

EagleXP

Http Dr0pper

Tong

TDrop

Figure 40. Shared encryption password.

Conclusion
McAfee Labs can connect the Dark Seoul and other government attacks to a secret, long-term campaign that reveals the 
true intention of the Dark Seoul adversaries: attempting to spy on and disrupt South Korea’s military and government 
activities. The Troy-era malware is based on the same source code used to create these specialized variants and shares 
many commonalities, such as bs.dll and payload.dll, which are found consistently throughout the families. The attackers 
have attempted since 2009 to install the capability to destroy their targets using an MBR wiper component, as seen in the 
Dark Seoul incident. From our analysis we have established that Operation Troy had a focus from the beginning to gather 
intelligence on South Korean military targets. We have also linked other high-profile public campaigns conducted over the 
years against South Korea to Operation Troy, suggesting that a single group is responsible. 

28

About the Authors
Ryan Sherstobitoff is a threats researcher with McAfee Labs. Formerly, he was Chief Security Strategist at Panda Security, 
where he managed the US strategic response for new and emerging threats. Sherstobitoff is widely recognized as a 
security and cloud computing expert.

Itai Liba is a senior security researcher with McAfee Labs. He is a member of the botnet research team. Itai has worked in 
mobile vulnerability research as well as large-scale reverse-engineering projects and display driver development. He has 
more than 10 years of experience in reverse engineering. 

James Walter is the director of Global Threat Intelligence Operations and manages the McAfee Threat Intelligence Service 
(MTIS) for the Office of the CTO. He focuses on new threats research as well as the cataloging and maintenance of 
vulnerabilities and associated countermeasures. Walter has been with McAfee for more than 14 years and leads a global 
team of threats analysts who create Security Advisories, countermeasure/detector feeds, Global Threat Intelligence apps, 
and more. He is a frequent speaker at industry events and conferences, and cohosts “AudioParasitics—The Official Podcast 
of McAfee Labs.”

About McAfee Labs
McAfee Labs is the global research team of McAfee. With the only research organization devoted to all threat vectors—
malware, web, email, network, and vulnerabilities—McAfee Labs gathers intelligence from its millions of sensors and 
its cloud-based service McAfee Global Threat Intelligence.™ The McAfee Labs team of 500 multidisciplinary researchers 
in 30 countries follows the complete range of threats in real time, identifying application vulnerabilities, analyzing and 
correlating risks, and enabling instant remediation to protect enterprises and the public. http://www.mcafee.com/labs

About McAfee
McAfee, a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel Corporation (NASDAQ: INTC), empowers businesses, the public sector, and 
home users to safely experience the benefits of the Internet. The company delivers proactive and proven security solutions 
and services for systems, networks, and mobile devices around the world. With its visionary Security Connected strategy, 
innovative approach to hardware-enhanced security, and unique global threat intelligence network, McAfee is relentlessly 
focused on keeping its customers safe. http://www.mcafee.com.

1  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principes
2  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hastati
3  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Troy
4  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROKS_Cheonan_sinking
5  https://github.com/jonasschnelli/IRCClient
6  http://www.wischik.com/lu/programmer/zip_utils.html

McAfee, the McAfee logo, and Global Threat Intelligence are registered trademarks or trademarks of McAfee, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the 
United States and other countries. Other marks and brands may be claimed as the property of others. The product plans, specifications and 
descriptions herein are provided for information only and subject to change without notice, and are provided without warranty of any kind, 
express or implied. Copyright © 2013 McAfee, Inc. 
60254wp_operation-troy_0713_fnl_ETMG

