World War C: Understanding  
Nation-State Motives Behind  
Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks

FireEye Labs

Authors: Kenneth Geers,  
Darien Kindlund, Ned Moran,  
Rob Rachwald

Contents

Executive Summary 

Introduction 

A Word of Warning 

The FireEye Perspective 

Asia-Pacific 

Russia/Eastern Europe 

Middle East 

The West 

Conclusion 

About FireEye 

2

3

4

4

5

11

13

17

20

21

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

1

Executive Summary

Cyberspace has become a full-blown war zone as governments across the globe clash for digital 
supremacy in a new, mostly invisible theater of operations. Once limited to opportunistic criminals, 
cyber attacks are becoming a key weapon for governments seeking to defend national sovereignty 
and project national power. 

From strategic cyber espionage campaigns, such as Moonlight Maze and Titan Rain, to the destructive, 
such as military cyber strikes on Georgia and Iran, human and international conflicts are entering a new 
phase in their long histories. In this shadowy battlefield, victories are fought with bits instead of bullets, 
malware instead of militias, and botnets instead of bombs.

These covert assaults are largely unseen by the public. Unlike the wars of yesteryear, this cyber war 
produces no dramatic images of exploding warheads, crumbled buildings, or fleeing civilians. But the 
list of casualties—which already includes some of the biggest names in technology, financial services, 
defense, and government —is growing larger by the day. 

A cyber attack is best understood not as an end in itself, but as a potentially powerful means to a wide 
variety of political, military, and economic goals. 

“Serious cyber attacks are unlikely to be motiveless,” said Martin Libicki, Senior Scientist at RAND Corp. 
“Countries carry them out to achieve certain ends, which tend to reflect their broader strategic goals. 
The relationship between the means chosen and their goals will look rational and reasonable to them if 
not necessarily to us.”

Just as each country has a unique political system, history, and culture, state-sponsored attacks also 
have distinctive characteristics, which include everything from motivation to target to type of attack.

This report describes the unique characteristics of cyber attack campaigns waged by governments 
worldwide. We hope that, armed with this knowledge, security professionals can better identify their 
attackers and tailor their defenses accordingly.

Here is a quick overview:

•  Asia-Pacific. Home to large, bureaucratic hacker groups such as the “Comment Crew” who pursue 

many goals and targets in high-frequency, brute-force attacks.

•  Russia/Eastern Europe. These cyber attacks are more technically advanced and highly effective  

at evading detection.

•  Middle East. These hackers are dynamic, often using creativity, deception, and social engineering  

to trick users into compromising their own computers.

•  United States. The most complex, targeted, and rigorously engineered cyber attack campaigns  

to date.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

2

Introduction

World War Z—a bestselling book and Hollywood movie—detailed a global pandemic in which politics 
and culture deeply influenced how the public—and by extension, governments—reacted to a zombie 
plague. In one passage, for example, an Arab boy refused to believe that the disease was real, 
suspecting that Israel had fabricated the story. The nations described in World War Z—the United States, 
China, Russia, South Korea, Israel, and many others—are involved in a very different type of conflict, 
but one with real and growing national security impact: World War C, where “C” stands for “Cyber”. 
However, the same rule applies: each country has a unique political system, history, language, culture, 
and understanding of human and international conflict.

Cyber conflict often mirrors traditional conflict. For example, China uses high-volume cyber attacks 
similar to how it used infantry during the Korean War. Many Chinese soldiers were sent into battle with 
only a handful of bullets. Given their strength in numbers, they were still able to achieve battlefield 
victories. On the other end of the spectrum lie Russia, the U.S., and Israel, whose cyber tactics are more 
surgical, reliant on advanced technologies and the cutting-edge work of contractors who are driven by 
competition and financial incentives.

We are still at the dawn of the Internet Age. But cyber attacks have already proven themselves as 
a low-cost, high-payoff way to defend national sovereignty and to project national power. Many of 
today’s headlines seem to be pulled from the pages of a science fiction novel. Code so sophisticated it 
destroys a nuclear centrifuge thousands of miles away. Malware that secretly records everything a user 
does on a computer. A software program that steals data from any nearby device that has Bluetooth 
connectivity. Encrypted code that decrypts only on one specific, target device. Such sophistication 
speaks volumes about the maturity, size, and resources of the organizations behind these attacks. With 
a few rare exceptions, these attacks are now in the exclusive realm of nation-states.

“The international community has developed a solid understanding of cyber technology,” said Prof. 
Michael N. Schmitt of the U.S. Naval War College, in an email interview. “What is missing is a grasp of 
the geopolitical context in which such technology operates. Attribution determinations made without 
sensitivity to the geopolitical surroundings are seldom reasonable.”

World War C, like any analogy, has its limits. Cyber war has been compared to special operations 
forces, submarine warfare, missiles, assassins, nuclear weapons, Pearl Harbor, 9/11, Katrina, and more. 
Even our zombie analogy is not new. Often, any compromised computer, if it is actively under the 
surreptitious control of a cybercriminal, is called a zombie, and botnets are sometimes called zombie 
armies. Also, compared to stockpiling tanks and artillery, writing cyber attack code, and compromising 
thousands if not millions of computers, is easy. Moreover, malware often spreads with the exponential 
growth of an infectious disease.

This report examines many publicly known cyber attacks. By exploring some of the distinctive national 
or regional characteristics of these attacks, organizations can better identify their attackers, anticipate 
future attacks, and defend themselves.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

3

A Word of Warning

The analytical waters surrounding cyber warfare are inherently murky. At the strategic level,  
governments desire to have a degree of plausible deniability. At the tactical level, military and 
intelligence organizations envelop such operations in layers of classification and secrecy. To be 
effective, information operations rely on deception—and the Internet offers an ideal venue for  
a spy’s smoke and mirrors. In practical terms, hackers often run their attacks through cyber terrain  
(such as compromised, third-party networks) that present investigators with technical and jurisdictional 
complications. And finally, cybercriminal tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) evolve so quickly that 
cyber defense, legislation, and law enforcement remain behind the attacker’s curve.

“The biggest challenge to deterring, defending against, or retaliating for cyber attacks is the problem 
of correctly identifying the perpetrator,” said Prof. John Arquilla, Naval Postgraduate School in an email 
interview with FireEye.® “Ballistic missiles come with return addresses. But computer viruses, worms, and 
denial of service attacks often emanate from behind a veil of anonymity. The best chance to pierce 
this veil comes with the skillful blending of forensic back-hacking techniques with deep knowledge of 
others’ strategic cultures and their geopolitical aims.”

Cyber “attribution”—identifying a likely culprit, whether an individual, organization, or nation-state—is 
notoriously difficult, especially for any single attack. States are often mistakenly identified as non-state 
actors, and vice versa. To make matters worse, ties between the two are increasing. First, a growing 
number of “patriotic cybercriminals” ostensibly wage cyber war on behalf of governments (examples 
include Chechnya and Kosovo in the 1990s, China in 2001, Estonia in 2007, Georgia in 2008, and every 
year in the Middle East).1 Second, cybercrime organizations offer anyone, including governments, cyber 
attack services to include denial-of-service attacks and access to previously compromised networks.

FireEye researchers have even seen one nation-state develop and use a sophisticated Trojan, and later 
(after its own counter-Trojan defenses were in place) sell it to cybercriminals on the black market. Thus, 
some cyber attack campaigns may bear the hallmarks of both state and non-state actors, making 
positive attribution almost impossible. And finally, “false flag” cyber operations involve a hacker group 
behaving like another to mislead cyber defense researchers.

The FireEye Perspective

Within the shadowy world of cyber warfare, FireEye occupies a unique position. First, our threat 
protection platform has been installed on thousands of sensitive networks around the world. This gives 
our researchers a global and embedded presence in the cyber domain. Second, FireEye devices are 
placed behind traditional security defenses such as firewalls, anti-virus, and intrusion prevention systems. 
This means that our “false positive” rate is extremely low, and that the attacks we detect have already 
succeeded in penetrating external network defenses.

1  Geers K. (2008) “Cyberspace and the Changing Nature of Warfare,” Hakin9 E-Book, 19(3) No. 6; SC Magazine (27 AUG 08) 1-12.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

4

Asia-Pacific

China—the elephant in the room
The People’s Republic of China is the noisiest threat actor in cyberspace. The reasons for this include  
its huge population, a rapidly expanding economy, and a lack of good mitigation strategies on the  
part of its targets.

Chinese attacks on the U.S.
The list of successful Chinese compromises is long, and spans the entire globe. Here are some of the 
most significant incidents in the U.S.:

•  Government: By 1999, the U.S. Department of Energy believed that China posed an “acute” threat 
to U.S. nuclear security via cyber espionage.2 By 2009, China apparently stole the plans for the most 
advanced U.S. fighter jet, the F-35.3

•  Technology: China hacked Google, Intel, Adobe, and RSA’s SecureID authentication technology—

with which it then targeted Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and L-3 Communications.4

•  Business and Financial Services: Morgan Stanley, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and numerous 

banks have been hacked.5

•  Media: The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and more have been targeted  

by advanced, persistent cyber attacks emanating from China.6

•  Critical Infrastructure: Department of Homeland Security (DHS) reported in 2013 that 23 gas  

pipeline companies were hacked (possibly for sabotage),7 and that Chinese hackers were seen  
at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ National Inventory of Dams.8

Some of these cyber attacks have given China access to proprietary information such as research and 
development data. Others offer Chinese intelligence access to sensitive communications, from senior 
government officials to Chinese political dissidents.

2  Gerth, J. & Risen, J. (2 May 1999) “1998 Report Told of Lab Breaches and China Threat,” The New York Times.

3  Gorman, S., Cole, A. & Dreazen, Y. (21 Apr 2009) “Computer Spies Breach Fighter-Jet Project,” The Wall Street Journal.

4  Gross, M.J. (1 Sep 2011) “Enter the Cyber-dragon,” Vanity Fair.

5  Gorman, S. (21 Dec 2011) “China Hackers Hit U.S. Chamber,” Wall Street Journal; and Ibid.

6  Perlroth, N. (1 Feb 2013) “Washington Post Joins List of News Media Hacked by the Chinese,” and “Wall Street Journal Announces That It,  
 

Too, Was Hacked by the Chinese,” The New York Times.

7  Clayton, M. (27 Feb 2013) “Exclusive: Cyberattack leaves natural gas pipelines vulnerable to sabotage,” The Christian Science Monitor.

8  Gertz, B. (1 May 2013) “Dam! Sensitive Army database of U.S. dams compromised; Chinese hackers suspected,” The Washington Times.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

5

CHINA

Chinese attacks outside the U.S.
Of course, the U.S. is not China’s only cyber target. All traditional, geopolitical conflicts have moved into 
cyberspace, and Chinese compromises encompass the entire globe. But many contests have been 
one-sided affairs, with all publicly known attacks emanating from China.

•  Europe: In 2006, Chinese cybercriminals targeted the UK House of Commons;9 in 2007, German 
Chancellor Angela Merkel raised the problem of nation-state hacking with China’s President;10 
in 2010, British MI5 warned that undercover Chinese intelligence officers had given UK business 
executives malware-laden digital cameras and memory sticks.11

•  India: Indian officials worry that China could disrupt their computer networks during a conflict. One 
expert confided that an exclusive reliance on Chinese hardware might give China a “permanent” 
denial-of-service capability.12 One sophisticated attack on an Indian Navy headquarters allegedly 
used a USB vector to bridge the “air-gap” between a compartmentalized, standalone network and 
the Internet.13

•  South Korea: The South Korean government has complained for years of Chinese activity on its official 

computers, including a 2010 compromise of the personal computers and PDAs belonging to much 
of South Korea’s government power structure14 and a 2011 assault on an Internet portal that held 
personal information for 35 million Koreans.15

•  Japan: Here, the target list includes government, military, and high-tech networks. Chinese 

cybercriminals have even stolen classified documents.16

9  Warren, P. (18 Jan 2006) “Smash and grab, the hi-tech way,” The Guardian.

10  “Espionage Report: Merkel’s China Visit Marred by Hacking Allegations,” (27 Aug 2007) Spiegel.

11  Leppard, D. (31 Jan 2010) “China bugs and burgles Britain,” The Sunday Times.

12  Exclusive cyber threat-related discussions with FireEye researchers.

13  Pubby, M. (01 Jul 2012) “China hackers enter Navy computers, plant bug to extract sensitive data,” The Indian Express.

14  Ungerleider, N. (19 Oct 2010) “South Korea’s Power Structure Hacked, Digital Trail Leads to China.” Fast Company.

15  Mick, J. (28 Jul 2011) “Chinese Hackers Score Heist of 35 Million South Koreans’ Personal Info,” Daily Tech.

16  McCurry, J. (20 Sep 2011) “Japan anxious over defence data as China denies hacking weapons maker,” The Guardian;  
  and “China-based servers in Japan cyber attacks,” (28 Oct 2011) The Indian Express.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

6

•  Australia: China allegedly stole the blueprints for the Australian Security Intelligence Organization’s 

new $631 million building.17

•  Worldwide: In 2009, Canadian researchers discovered that China controlled a worldwide cyber 

espionage network in over 100 countries.18 In 2010, a Chinese telecommunications firm transmitted 
erroneous routing information for 37,000 computer networks, which misrouted some Internet traffic 
through China for 20 minutes. The attack exposed data from 8,000 U.S. networks, 1,100 Australian 
networks, and 230 French networks.19

Chinese cyber tactics
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) is home to 1.35 billion people, or more than four times the 
population of the United States. Therefore, China often has the ability to overwhelm cyber defenses with 
quantity over quality, just as it did in the Korean War and as it might do in any other type of conflict.

The Chinese malware that FireEye researchers have analyzed is not the most advanced or creative.  
But in many circumstances, it has been no less effective. China employs brute-force attacks that are 
often the most inexpensive way to accomplish its objectives. The attacks succeed due to the sheer 
volume of attacks, the prevalence and persistence of vulnerabilities in modern networks, and a seeming 
indifference on the part of the cybercriminals to being caught. 

Reconnaissance

Mailing Lists, Previous Watering Hole Intel,  
Crawling, Mining Social Networks

Weaponization

Delivery

Exploitation

Installation

Masked EXEs to Appear Non-Executable 
File Formats, Malicious Non-EXE File Formats, 
Watering Hole Attacks

Strategic Web Compromises, Spear phish URLs 
in Email, Weaponized Email Attachments, 
Webserver compromise via scanning

0-Day Browser / Application Vulnerabilities, 
Social Engineering

Feature Rich, Compact RATs with Minimal 
Evasion Capabilities (Requires Operator For 
Lateral Movement)

Command and 
Control (C2)

HTTP with Embedded, Standard Encodings 
(e.g., XOR), along with Custom Encodings

Actions on Objectives

Intelligence Gathering / Economic Espionage, 
Persistent Access

TTP Exemplars

Comment Group

Table 1: Characteristics of 
Chinese cyber attacks

17  “Report: Plans for Australia spy HQ hacked by China,” (28 May 2013) Associated Press.

18  Tracking GhostNet: Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network (29 March 2009) Information Warfare Monitor.

19  Vijayan, J. (18 Nov 2010) “Update: Report sounds alarm on China’s rerouting of U.S. Internet traffic,” Computerworld.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

7

The “Comment Crew,”20 a prominent example of a Chinese cyber threat actor, is believed to be a 
contractor to the PRC government. The Comment Crew is behind many noteworthy attacks, including 
Operation Beebus, which targets U.S. aerospace and defense industries.21

One important characteristic of the Comment Crew—which puts it definitively in the category of an 
advanced persistent threat, or APT—is that it is a bureaucracy. In-depth analysis reveals a small group 
of creative and strategic thinkers at the top. One layer down, a larger group of specialists design and 
produce malware in an industrial fashion. At the bottom are the foot soldiers—brute-force hackers who 
execute orders and wage extended cyber attack campaigns, from network reconnaissance to spear 
phishing to data exfiltration. The Comment Crew is so large, in fact, that when the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI) decoded one of the group’s stolen caches of information, if printed out, it would 
have created a stack of paper taller than a set of encyclopedias.22

Such a large bureaucracy helps to explain sometimes-incongruous cybercriminal behavior. A given 
piece of malware, for example, may have been written by an expert but incorrectly used later by an 
inexperienced foot soldier (such as a poorly written spear phishing email). Understanding this cyber 
attack life cycle and its different stages can help cyber defenders recognize and foil an attack. In any 
large organization, some processes are less mature than others, and therefore easier to recognize.

Chinese cyber defense
In its own defense, Chinese officials contend that their country is also a target of cyber attacks. In 2006, 
the China Aerospace Science & Industry Corporation (CASIC) found spyware on its classified network.23 
In 2007, the Chinese Ministry of State Security stated that foreign cybercriminals were stealing Chinese 
information, with 42 percent of attacks coming from Taiwan and 25 percent from the United States.24 
In 2009, Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao announced that a cybercriminal from Taiwan had stolen 
his upcoming report to the National People’s Congress.25 In 2013, Edward Snowden, a former system 
administrator at the National Security Agency (NSA), published documents suggesting that the U.S. 
conducted cyber espionage against China;26 and the Chinese Computer Emergency Response Team 
(CERT) stated that it possessed “mountains of data” on cyber attacks by the U.S.27

20  Sanger, D., Barboza, D. & Perlroth, N. (18 Feb 2013) “Chinese Army Unit is seen as tied to Hacking against U.S.” The New York Times.

21  Pidathala, V., Kindlund, D. & Haq, T. (1 Feb 2013) “Operation Beebus,” FireEye.

22  Riley, M. & Lawrence, D. (26 Jul 2012) “Hackers Linked to China’s Army Seen From EU to D.C.,” Bloomberg.

23  “Significant Cyber Incidents Since 2006,” Center for Strategic and International Studies.

24  Ibid.

25  Ibid.

26  Rapoza, K. (22 June 2013) “U.S. Hacked China Universities, Mobile Phones, Snowden Tells China Press,” Forbes.

27  Hille, K. (5 Jun 2013) “China claims ‘mountains of data’ on cyber attacks by US,” Financial Times.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

8

North Korea—the upstart
North and South Korea remain locked in one of the most intractable conflicts on Earth. North Korea 
(supported by China) would seem to be stuck in a cyber Stone Age—especially relative to South Korea 
(supported by the U.S.)—has the fastest download speeds in the world28 and will issue its students with 
computer tablets instead of books by 2015.29 Even so, the Internet offers anyone, and any nation, an 
asymmetric way to gather intelligence and project national power in cyberspace—and North Korea 
appears to have acquired cyber attacks as a new weapon for its arsenal.

In 2009, North Korea launched its first major assault on South Korean and U.S. government websites. The 
attack did little damage, but the incident gained wide media exposure.30 By 2013, however, the threat 
actors had matured. A group dubbed the “DarkSeoul Gang” was responsible for at least four years of 
high-profile attacks on South Korea. The group’s attacks included a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) 
attack and malicious code that wiped computer hard drives at banks, media, ISPs, telcos, and financial 
services companies—overwriting legitimate data with political messages. In the Korean conflict, such 
incidents often take place on dates of historical significance, including July 4, the U.S. Independence 
Day.31 Suspected North Korean attacks on U.S. institutions include U.S. military elements based in South 
Korea, the U.S.-based Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, and even the White House.

North Korean defectors have described a burgeoning cyberwarfare department of 3,000 personnel, 
largely trained in China and Russia. The defectors stressed that North Korea has a growing 
fascinationwith cyber attacks as a cost-effective way to compete against its conventionally superior 
foes. They believe that North Korea is growing increasingly comfortable and confident in this new 
warfare domain, assessing that the Internet is not only vulnerable to attack but that this strategy can 
create psychological pressure on the West. Toward this end, North Korea has focused on disconnecting 
its important servers from the Internet, while building a dedicated “attack network.”32

FireEye researchers have seen a heavy use of spear phishing and the construction of a “watering hole,” 
in which an important website is hacked in the hope of compromising the computers of its subsequent 
visitors, who usually belong to a certain VIP-profile the attacker is targeting. Some North Korean attacks 
have begun to manipulate a victim’s operating system settings and disable their anti-virus software—
techniques that are normally characteristic of Russian cybercriminals. In other words, North Korean 
hackers may have learned from or have contracted support in Russia.

Apart from any possible disruption or destruction stemming from cyber attacks, computer network 
operations are an invaluable tool for collecting sensitive information, especially when it resides on 
government or think-tank networks normally inaccessible from the Internet. North Korea, China, and 
Russia are all naturally interested in collecting cyber intelligence that would increase their comparative 
advantage in classified information, diplomatic negotiating positions, or future policy changes.

28  McDonald, M. (21 Feb 2011) “Home Internet May Get Even Faster in South Korea,” The New York Times.

29  Gobry, P-E. (5 JUL 2011) “South Korea Will Replace All Paper With Tablets In Schools By 2015,” Business Insider.

30  Choe Sang-Hun, C. & Markoff, J. (8 Jul 2009) “Cyberattacks Jam Government and Commercial Web Sites in U.S. and South Korea,”  
 

The New York Times.

31  “Four Years of DarkSeoul Cyberattacks Against South Korea Continue on Anniversary of Korean War,” (27 Jun 2013) Symantec.

32  Fisher, M. (20 March 2013) “South Korea under cyber attack: Is North Korea secretly awesome at hacking?” The Washington Post. 

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

9

At the same time, North Korea also asserts that it is a target of cyber attacks from South Korea and the 
U.S. In June 2013, when the North suffered a two-day outage of all of its in-country websites, its state 
news agency denounced “concentrated and persistent virus attacks,” and proclaimed that the U.S. 
and South Korea “will have to take the responsibility for the whole consequences.” The North noted that 
the attack took place in parallel with Key Resolve (joint U.S.-South Korean military exercises), but the  
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff denied any connection.33

India-Pakistan: old rivals, new tactics
A heavily fortified border separates India and Pakistan on the map. But the quiet, borderless nature  
of cyberspace means both sides are free to engage in cyber warfare—even during peacetime.

In 2009, India announced that Pakistani cybercriminals had placed malware on popular Indian music 
download sites as a clever, indirect way to compromise Indian systems.34 In 2010, the “Pakistani Cyber 
Army” defaced and subsequently shut down the website of the Central Bureau of Investigation, India’s 
top police agency.35 In 2012, over 100 Indian government websites were compromised.36

Not to be outdone, in 2013, cybercriminals in India undertook “Operation Hangover,” a large-scale 
Indian cyber espionage campaign that hit Pakistani IT, mining, automotive, legal, engineering, food 
service, military, and financial services networks.37 Although researchers could not definitively tie the 
attacks to India’s government, many of the targets represented the country’s national security interests.38

Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN): emerging economies as soft targets
Since at least 2010, many APTs (likely China-based) have targeted the governments, militaries, and 
businesses of ASEAN, the Southeast Asian geopolitical and economic group composed of Brunei,  
Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. 
Although chances of any regional war erupting in the near term are low, a large volume of ongoing, 
regional cyber espionage activity is a constant. Targeted industries include telecommunications, 
transportation, oil and gas, banks, and think tanks. The usual motivation is to gain tactical or strategic 
advantage within the political, military, and economic domains.39

FireEye researchers are following numerous APT actors in this region, including BeeBus, Mirage, Check 
Command, Taidoor, Seinup, and Naikon. Their most common tactic is spear phishing, often using 
legitimate decoy documents that are related to the target’s national economy or politics, or to regional 
events such as ASEAN summits, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summits, energy exploration, 
or military affairs.

33  Herman, S. (15 Mar 2013) “North Korea Blames US, South for ‘Cyber Attack’,” Voice of America.

34  “Significant Cyber Incidents Since 2006,” Center for Strategic and International Studies.

35  “India and Pakistan in cyber war,” (4 Dec 2010) Al-Jazeera.

36  Muncaster, P. (16 March 2012) “Hackers hit 112 Indian gov sites in three months,” The Register.

37  “Operation Hangover: Q&A on Attacks,” (20 May 2013) Symantec.

38  “Snorre Fagerland, et al. “Operation Hangover: Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure.” May 2013.

39  Finkle, J. (4 Aug 2011) “’State actor’ behind slew of cyber attacks,” Reuters.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

10

FireEye believes that many of these regional economic organizations are attractive targets for APT 
campaigns because the information they possess is valuable and their level of cyber security awareness 
is low. Often, these organizations have inconsistent system administration, infrequent software patch 
management, poor policy control, or some combination of these issues. Thus, many of these networks 
are “low-hanging fruit” for attackers. And to make matters worse, compromised systems are used as 
staging grounds for further attacks on regional targets, by installing illicit command-and-control (CnC) 
servers, abusing legitimate email accounts, and disseminating stolen office documents as “bait.”

Russia/Eastern Europe

Russia—a little bit “too quiet?”
In 1939, Winston Churchill declared that Russia was a “riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma …”. 
Seven decades later, cyber defense researchers would say that not much has changed. Compared 
with the constant attacks detected from China, you can almost hear the snow falling on Red Square. 
One of the outstanding questions in cyber security today is: Where are the Russians? Perhaps they are 
simply great hackers. Maybe they have sufficient human intelligence. Whatever the reason, cyber 
defense analysts often look in vain for the traces of Russian cybercriminals. As a step toward finding 
some answers, however, consider the second half of Churchill’s quote: “… but perhaps there is a key—
that key is Russian national interest.”40 In other words, where there is smoke, there is usually fire.

In the mid-1990s, at the very dawn of the World Wide Web, Russia was engaged in a protracted struggle 
over the fate of Chechnya; the Chechens became pioneers in cyber propaganda, and the Russians 
became pioneers is shutting down their websites. In 1998, when Russian ally Serbia was under attack from 
NATO, pro-Serbian hackers jumped in the fray, targeting NATO with DoS attacks and at least twenty-five 
strains of virus-infected email. In 2007, Russia was the prime suspect in the most famous international cyber 
attack to date—the punitive DDoS on Estonia for moving a Soviet-era statue.41 

In 2008, researchers uncovered clear evidence that computer network operations played a supporting 
role in Russian military advances during its invasion of Georgia.42 Also in 2008, Russia was suspected in 
what U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn called the “most significant breach of U.S. military 
computers ever”—an attack on Central Command (CENTCOM), delivered through an infected USB 
drive.43 In 2009, Russian cybercriminals were blamed in “Climategate,” a breach of university research 
intended to undermine international negotiations on climate change mitigation.44 In 2010, NATO and 
the European Union warned of increased Russian cyber attacks, while the FBI arrested and deported a 
possible Russian intelligence agent named Alexey Karetnikov, who had been working as a software  
tester at Microsoft.45

40  “Winston Churchill,” Wikiquote.

41  Geers K. (2008) “Cyberspace and the Changing Nature of Warfare,” Hakin9 E-Book, 19(3) No. 6; SC Magazine (27 AUG 08) 1-12.

42  “Overview by the US-CCU of the Cyber Campaign against Georgia in August of 2008,” (Aug 2009) U.S. Cyber Consequences Unit.

43  Lynn, W.J. (2010) “Defending a New Domain: The Pentagon’s Cyberstrategy,” Foreign Affairs 89(5) 97-108.

44  Stewart, W. & Delgado, M. (6 Dec 2009) “Were Russian security services behind the leak of ‘Climategate’ emails?”  
  Daily Mail & “Global warning: New Climategate leaks,” (23 Nov 2011) RT.

45  Ustinova, A. (14 Jul 2010) “Microsoft Says 12th Alleged Russian Spy Was Employee,” Bloomberg.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

11

One ironic aspect of nation-state cyber attacks—especially in authoritarian countries—is that many 
of them are inward facing. In 2012, Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab announced the discovery of 
“Red October,”46 a cyber attack campaign that spied on millions of citizens around the world, but 
chiefly within the former Soviet Union. Targets included embassies, research firms, military bases, energy 
providers, nuclear agencies, and critical infrastructure.47 Similarly, in 2013, researchers found malware 
on millions of Android devices in Russia and in Russian-speaking countries. Either or both of these attacks 
could be partially explained as the Russian government keeping an eye on its own population, and that 
of neighboring countries.48

On the brighter side, as a step toward cyber détente, the U.S. and Russia in 2013 signed an agreement 
to build a cyber “hotline”—similar to that used for nuclear scares during the Cold War—to help defuse 
any computer-related crises in the future.49 But, just to be on the safe side, Russia is taking the extreme 
cyber defense measure of buying old-fashioned typewriters,50 and the Russian military is (like the U.S., 
China, and Israel) creating cyber warfare-focused units.51

Russian tactics
Though relatively quiet, Russia appears to be home to many of the most complex and advanced  
cyber attacks FireEye researchers have seen. More specifically, Russian exploit code can be significantly 
stealthier than its Chinese counterpart—which can also make it more worrisome. The “Red October” 
campaign, including its satellite software dubbed “Sputnik,” is a prominent example of likely  
Russian malware.

TTP often includes the delivery of weaponized email attachments, though Russian cybercriminals 
appear to be adept at changing their attack patterns, exploits, and data exfiltration methods to 
evade detection. In fact, one telltale aspect of Russian hackers seems to be that, unlike the Chinese, 
they go to extraordinary lengths to hide their identities and objectives. FireEye analysts have even  
seen examples in which they have run “false-flag” cyber operations, designing their attack to appear  
as if it came from Asia.

RUSSIA

46  “The ‘Red October’ Campaign—An Advanced Cyber Espionage Network Targeting Diplomatic and Government Agencies” (14 Jan 2013)  
  GReAT, Kaspersky Lab.

47  Lee, D. (14 Jan 2013) “’Red October’” cyber-attack found by Russian researchers,” BBC News

48  Jackson Higgins, K. (3 Aug 2013) “Anatomy of a Russian Cybercrime Ecosystem Targeting Android,” Dark Reading.

49  Gallagher, S. (18 Jun 2013) “US, Russia to install ‘cyber-hotline’ to prevent accidental cyberwar,” Ars Technica.

50  Ingersoll, G. (11 Jul 2013) “Russia Turns to Typewriters to Protect against Cyber Espionage,” Business Insider.

51  Gorshenin, V. (29 Aug 2013) “Russia to create cyber-warfare units,” Pravda.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

12

One further problem for cyber defense researchers is that some Russian back doors into compromised 
systems are hard to distinguish from advanced cybercriminal break-ins.

Reconnaissance

Likely HUMINT Sources

Weaponization

Malicious DOC/XLS File Formats

Delivery

Weaponized Email Attachments

Exploitation

0-Day Application Vulnerabilities

Installation

Feature Rich RAT with Encrypted Modules

Command and 
Control (C2)

HTTP with Custom Embedded Encoding / 
Encryption

Actions on Objectives

Intelligence Gathering (Govt. Focused)

TTP Exemplars

Red October

Table 2: Characteristics of 
Russian cyber attacks

Middle East

As a region, the Middle East may not possess the arsenal of zero-day exploits available in Russia, or 
the brute-force numbers of China. Therefore, some Middle Eastern hackers may have to rely on cyber 
tactics that emphasize novelty, creativity, and deception. 

For example, the 2012 Mahdi campaign, which infected targets in the Middle East, used malicious 
Word documents, PowerPoint files, and PDFs to infect targets. That approach is similar to many other 
attackers. But these attacks were accompanied by some imaginative elements such as games, 
attractive images, and custom animations specifically designed to aid in the attack. 

Not only did they trick users into executing commands to install malicious code, but they also distracted 
users from seeing malware-related warning messages. Furthermore, Mahdi attacks were tailored to 
specific target audiences—for example by offering variations of games unique to each organization. 
Such pinpoint strikes rely on prior reconnaissance, help to evade cyber defense behavioral-detection 
mechanisms, and dramatically increase the odds of compromise. So in the Middle East, the relative 
sophistication of an attack may be calculated less in the technology, and more in the clever ways in 
which malware is delivered and installed on a target network.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

13

Reconnaissance

Regional Mailing Lists, Conferences

Weaponization

Malicious PPT/PPS Files

Delivery

Weaponized Email Attachments

Exploitation

Social Engineering Mouse Clicks on Screen

Installation

Command and 
Control (C2)

Primitive Collection of Custom Tools / RAT 
(Requires Operator For Lateral Movement)

Plain HTTP; Hiding in Plain Sight

Actions on Objectives

Intelligence Gathering (Middle East Focused), 
Denial of Service

TTP Exemplars

Madi, LV

Table 3: Characteristics of  
Middle Eastern cyber attacks

Iran: a “hot” cyber war
Wherever significant activity erupts in the real world (including crime, espionage, and warfare), parallel 
activity unfolds in cyberspace. It is therefore unsurprising that Iran—which has tense international 
relations and is on the verge of acquiring a nuclear bomb—has also experienced the most 
sophisticated cyber attacks to date.

In 2010, Stuxnet was a “cyber missile” of sorts designed with painstaking precision to burrow deep  
into Iran’s nuclear program and destroy physical infrastructure. To some degree, this piece of software 
replaced a squadron of fighter aircraft that would have violated foreign airspace, dropped laser-
guided bombs, and left a smoking crater in the Earth’s surface.52 Beyond Stuxnet, other advanced 
espionage attacks have worried security experts, including Duqu, Flame, and Gauss, which all may 
have come from the same threat actor.53 And even amateurs are successfully targeting Iran; although 
the “Mahdi” malware is by comparison far less sophisticated than Stuxnet and its cousins, Mahdi has 
still managed to compromise engineering firms, government agencies, financial services firms, and 
academia throughout the Middle East.54

52  Sanger, D. Confront and Conceal. (New York: 2012) pp. 188-225.

53  Boldizsár Bencsáth. “Duqu, Flame, Gauss: Followers of Stuxnet,” BME CrySyS Lab, RSA 2012.

54  Simonite, T. (31 Aug 2012) “Bungling Cyber Spy Stalks Iran,” MIT Technology Review. 

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

14

So how does anyone, including a nation-state, respond to a cyber attack? Does the counterstrike 
remain within the cyber realm, or can it come in the form of a traditional military (or terrorist) assault? In 
2012, Iran appears to have chosen the first option. A hacker group called the “Cutting Sword of Justice” 
used the “Shamoon” virus to attack the Saudi Arabian national oil company Aramco, deleting data on 
three-quarters of Aramco’s corporate PCs (including documents, spreadsheets, e-mails, and files) and 
replacing them with an image of a burning American flag.55 And over the past year, another group 
called Izz ad-Din al-Qassam launched “Operation Ababil,” a series of DDoS attacks against many U.S. 
financial institutions including the New York Stock Exchange.56

Other examples of cyber attacks abound. In 2009, the plans for a new U.S. Marine Corps 1 presidential 
helicopter were found on a file-sharing network in Iran.57 In 2010, the “Iranian Cyber Army” disrupted 
Twitter and the Chinese search engine Baidu, redirecting users to Iranian political messages.58 In 2011, 
Iranian attackers compromised a Dutch digital certificate authority, after which it issued more than 
500 fraudulent certificates for major companies and government agencies.59 In 2012, Iran disrupted 
the BBC’s Persian Language Service, and University of Toronto researchers reported that some versions 
of the Simurgh “proxy” software (which is popular in countries like Iran and anonymizes Internet traffic) 
also installed a Trojan that collected usernames and keystrokes, sending them to a likely intelligence 
collection site.60 Finally, in 2013 the Wall Street Journal reported that Iranian actors had increased their 
efforts to compromise U.S. critical infrastructure.61

Syria: what is the Syrian Electronic Army?
Syria is in the midst of a civil war, so researchers have a lot of cyber activity to analyze. The most 
prominent hacker group by far is the Syrian Electronic Army (SEA), which is loyal to Syrian President 
Bashar al-Assad. SEA has conducted DDoS attacks, phishing, pro-Assad defacements, and spamming 
campaigns against governments, online services, and media that are perceived to be hostile to 
the Syrian government. SEA has hacked Al-Jazeera, Anonymous, Associated Press (AP), BBC, Daily 
Telegraph, Financial Times, Guardian, Human Rights Watch, National Public Radio, The New York Times, 
Twitter, and more.62 Its most famous exploit was a hoax announcement using AP’s Twitter account that 
the White House was bombed and President Obama injured—after which stock markets briefly dipped 
to the tune of $200 billion.63

55  Perlroth, N. (23 Oct 2012) “In Cyberattack on Saudi Firm, U.S. Sees Iran Firing Back,” The New York Times.

56  Walker, D. (8 Mar 2013) “Hacktivists plan to resume DDoS campaign against U.S. banks,” SC Magazine.

57  Borak, D. (3 Mar 2009) “Source in Iran views Marine One blueprints,” Marine Corps Times.

58  Wai-yin Kwok, V. (13 Jan 2010) “Baidu Hijacked By Cyber Army,” Forbes.

59  Charette, R. (9 Sep 2011) “DigiNotar Certificate Authority Breach Crashes e-Government in the Netherlands,” IEEE Spectrum.

60  “Iranian anti-censorship software ‘Simurgh’ circulated with malicious backdoor,” (25 May 2012) Citizenlab.

61  Gorman, S. & Yadron, D. (23 May 2013) “Iran Hacks Energy Firms, U.S. Says,” Wall Street Journal.

62  Fisher, M. & Keller, J. (31 Aug 2011) “Syria’s Digital Counter-Revolutionaries.” The Atlantic; “Syrian Electronic Army,”  
 

(accessed 25 July, 2013) Wikipedia.

63  Manzoor, S. (25 July, 2013) “Slaves to the algorithm: Are stock market math geniuses, or quants, a force for good?” The Sunday Telegraph.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

15

In the month of July 2013 alone, SEA compromised three widely used online communications websites: 
Truecaller (the world’s largest telephone directory),64 Tango (a video and text messaging service),65 and 
Viber (a free online calling and messaging application).66 These types of compromises are significant 
because they can give Syrian intelligence access to the communications of millions of people, including 
political activists within Syria who might then be targeted for espionage, intimidation, and arrest.

To compromise its targets, the SEA often sends socially engineered, spear-phishing emails to lure 
opposition activists into opening fraudulent, weaponized, and malicious documents. If the recipient falls 
for the scam, Trojan horse, remote access tool (RAT) software is installed on the victim’s computer that 
can give the attacker keystrokes, screenshots, microphone and webcam recordings, stolen documents, 
and passwords. And of course, the SEA likely sends all of this information to a computer address lying 
within Syrian government-controlled Internet Protocol (IP) space for intelligence collection and review.67

Israel: old conflict, new tactics
Even during the Cold War, the Arab-Israeli conflict saw many hot wars, and it was often the testing 
ground for new military weapons and tactics. Nothing has changed in the Internet era. Since at least 
2000, pro-Israeli hackers have targeted sites of political and military significance in the Middle East.68 
In 2007, Israel reportedly disrupted Syrian air defense networks via cyber attack (with some collateral 
damage to its own domestic networks) to facilitate the Israeli Air Force’s destruction of an alleged  
Syrian nuclear facility.69

64  Khare, A. (19 July 2013) “Syrian Electronic Army Hacks Truecaller Database, Gains Access Codes to Social Media Accounts.” iDigital Times.

65  Kastrenakes, J. (22 July 2013) “Syrian Electronic Army alleges stealing ‘millions’ of phone numbers from chat app Tango.”  
 

The Verge; Albanesius, C. (23 July 2013) “Tango Messaging App Targeted by Syrian Electronic Army.” PCMag.

66  Ashford, W. (24 July 2013) “Syrian hacktvists hit second mobile app in a week.” Computer Weekly.

67  Tsukayama, H. (28 Aug 2013) “Attacks like the one against the New York Times should put consumers on alert,” The Washington Post.

68  Geers K. (2008) “Cyberspace and the Changing Nature of Warfare,” Hakin9 E-Book, 19(3) No. 6; SC Magazine (27 AUG 08) 1-12.

69  Carroll, W. (26 Nov 2007) “Israel’s Cyber Shot at Syria,” Defense Tech.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

16

But as an advanced industrial nation, Israel also depends on information technology. The nation has 
proven to be vulnerable to cyber attacks, which often target the Israeli economy. In 2009, during Israel’s 
military operation in Gaza, hackers briefly paralyzed many government sites with a DDoS attack from at 
least 500,000 computers. The 2009 attack consisted of four independent waves, each stronger than the 
last, peaking at 15 million junk mail deliveries per second. The Israeli “Home Front Command” website, 
which plays a key role in national defense communications with the public, was down for three hours. 
Due to technical similarities with the 2008 cyber attack on Georgia during its war with Russia, Israeli 
officials surmised that the attack itself might have been carried out by a criminal organization in the 
former Soviet Union, and paid for by Hamas or Hezbollah.70

Often, the trouble with cyber attacks is that they do not need to be highly sophisticated to succeed, 
even against security-conscious Israel. In 2012, the ineptly written71 “Mahdi” malware compromised at 
least 54 targets in Israel.72 Last but not least, in 2013, the Iranian media reported that the Syrian army had 
carried out a cyber attack against the water supply of the Israeli city of Haifa. Prof. Isaac Ben-Israel, a 
cyber security adviser to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said that the report was false, but added 
that cyber attacks on critical infrastructures pose a “real and present threat” to Israel.73

The West

United States
Analysts believe that the U.S. has conducted the most highly engineered cyber attacks to date, 
including Stuxnet,74 Duqu, Flame, and Gauss.75 This family of malware is unparalleled in its complexity 
and targeting. Stuxnet in particular was developed with a singular goal (to disrupt Iranian nuclear 
enrichment) that was both narrowly focused and capable of yielding strategic gains in the international 
arena. In contrast to computer worms such as Slammer and Code Red, Stuxnet did not seek to 
compromise as many computers as possible, but as few as possible. Even more amazing, its malicious 
behavior was concealed under a veneer of apparently legitimate operational data—but ultimately,  
the malware destroyed Iranian centrifuges.

This family of malware was exquisitely designed. For example, its payload can arrive at its destination 
encrypted—and become decrypted and installed only on a target device. This helps the malware to 
evade the prying eyes of cyber defenders, making discovering and reverse engineering the malware 
much more difficult.

Ironically, this family of malware could be a paragon of over-engineering. For example, it not only 
uses multiple zero-day exploits, but also world-first computational achievements such as a forced 
cryptographic “hash collision.”76 In the case of Iran (which is currently subject to a trade embargo 
that restricts its acquisition of high technology), it is doubtful whether Iranian software is up-to-date or 
properly configured. So the authors of Stuxnet could likely have used more conventional computer 
exploits and still succeeded.

70  Pfeffer, A. (15 Jun 2009) “Israel suffered massive cyber attack during Gaza offensive,” Haaretz.

71  Simonite, T. (31 Aug 2012) “Bungling Cyber Spy Stalks Iran,” MIT Technology Review.

72  Zetter, K. (17 Jul 2012) “Mahdi, the Messiah, Found Infecting Systems in Iran, Israel,” WIRED.

73  Yagna, Y. (26 May 2013) “Ex-General denies statements regarding Syrian cyber attack,” Haaretz.

74  Sanger, D. Confront and Conceal. (New York: 2012) pp. 188-225.

75  Boldizsár Bencsáth. “Duqu, Flame, Gauss: Followers of Stuxnet,” BME CrySyS Lab, RSA 2012.

76  Goodin, Dan (7 Jun 2012) “Crypto breakthrough shows Flame was designed by world-class scientists,” Ars Technica.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

17

Reconnaissance

Likely HUMINT Sources

Weaponization

Auto Infected Removable Media

Delivery

USB Removable Media

Exploitation

Social Engineering USB Media Use

Installation

Well-Crafted, Targeted (Crypto-Keyed) 
Worm (No Operator Required; Auto-Lateral 
Movement)

Command and 
Control (C2)

Strategic One-Time Use C2 Nodes;  
Full SSL Crypto

Actions on Objectives

Intelligence Gathering / Subtle System 
Disruption (Middle East Focused)

TTP Exemplars

Stuxnet, Flame, Duqu, Gauss

Table 4: Characteristics  
of Western cyber attacks

One possible telling aspect of U.S. cyber attacks: they require such a high level of financial investment, 
technical sophistication, and legal oversight that they will stand out from the crowd. On the last point, 
Richard Clarke, who served three U.S. Presidents as a senior counterterrorism official, argued that Stuxnet 
was a U.S. operation because “it very much had the feel to it of having been written by or governed 
by a team of Washington lawyers.”77 Finally, the amount of work involved in these operations suggests 
the participation of an enormous defense contractor base, with different companies specializing in 
particular aspects of a large and complex undertaking.

On the downside (and similar to the Israeli case), all advanced industrial economies are vulnerable  
to cyber counterattack. In 2008, a CIA official informed a conference of critical infrastructure providers 
that unknown cybercriminals, on multiple occasions, had been able to disrupt the power supply in 
various foreign cities.78 In the military domain, Iraqi insurgents used $26 off-the-shelf software to intercept 
live video feeds from U.S. Predator drones, likely giving them the ability to monitor and evade U.S. 
military operations.79 In the economic sphere, the U.S.-based International Monetary Fund (IMF) fell 
victim to a phishing attack in 2011 that was described as a “very major breach.”80

Thus, while cyber attacks are relatively a new phenomenon, they represent a growing national security 
challenge. As part of a broader effort to mitigate the threat, President Obama signed a directive in 
2013 that the U.S. should aid allies who come under foreign cyber attack.81

77  Rosenbaum, R. (Apr 2012) “Richard Clarke on Who Was Behind the Stuxnet Attack,” Smithsonian.

78  Nakashima, E. & Mufson, S. (19 Jan 2008) “Hackers Have Attacked Foreign Utilities, CIA Analyst Says,” Washington Post.

79  Gorman, S., Dreazen, Y. & Cole, A. (17 Dec 2009) “Insurgents Hack U.S. Drones,” Wall Street Journal.

80  Sanger, D. & Markoff, J. (11 Jun 2011) “I.M.F. Reports Cyberattack Led to ‘Very Major Breach’,” New York Times.

81  Shanker, T. & Sanger, D. (8 Jun 2013) “U.S. Helps Allies Trying to Battle Iranian Hackers,” New York Times.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

18

Europe
No prominent examples have been discovered of the European Union (EU) or the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) conducting their own offensive cyber attacks. On the contrary, their leaders have 
so far foresworn them.82 But many examples reveal European networks getting hacked from other parts 
of the world, particularly China and Russia.

Within government, cyber attacks on the British Foreign Ministry evaded network defenses in 2010 by 
pretending to come from the White House.83 In 2011, German Police found that servers used to locate 
serious criminals and terrorism suspects had been penetrated, initially via a phishing attack.84 Also in 2011, 
European Commission officials were targeted at an Internet Governance Forum (IGF) in Azerbaijan.85

In the military sphere, in 2009, French Navy planes were grounded following an infection by the 
Conficker worm.86 In 2012, the UK admitted that cybercriminals had penetrated its classified Ministry of 
Defense networks.87

In business, the European Union’s carbon trading market was breached in 2011, resulting in the theft 
of more than $7 million in credits, forcing the market to shut down temporarily.88 In 2012, the European 
Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS) and German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp fell victim to 
major attacks by Chinese cybercriminals.89

Security professionals should particularly be on the lookout for APT cyber threats just before and during 
international negotiations. In 2011 alone, the European Commission complained of widespread hacking 
before an EU summit,90 the French government was compromised prior to a G-20 meeting,91 and at 
least 10 Norwegian defense and energy companies were breached during large-scale contract 
negotiations, via phishing that was specifically tailored to each company.92

82  Leyden, J. (6 June 2012) “Relax hackers! NATO has no cyber-attack plans—top brass,” The Register.

83  Arthur, C. (5 Feb 2011) “William Hague reveals hacker attack on Foreign Office in call for cyber rules,” The Observer.

84  “Hackers infiltrate German police and customs service computers,” (18 July 2011) Infosecurity Magazine.

85  Satter, R. (10 Nov 2012) “European Commission Officials Hacked At Internet Governance Forum,” Huffington Post.

86  Willsher, K. (7 Feb 2009) “French fighter planes grounded by computer virus,” The Telegraph.

87  Hopkins, N. (3 May 2012) “Hackers have breached top secret MoD systems, cyber-security chief admits,” The Guardian.

88  Krukowska, E. & Carr, M. (20 Jan 2011), “EU Carbon Trading Declines After Alleged Hacking Suspends Spot Market,” Bloomberg.

89  Rochford, O. (24 Feb 2013) “European Space, Industrial Firms Breached in Cyber Attacks: Report,” Security Week.

90  “’Serious’ cyber attack on EU bodies before summit,” (23 Mar 2011) BBC.

91  Charette, R. (8 Mar 2011) “’Spectacular’ Cyber Attack Gains Access to France’s G20 Files,” IEEE Spectrum.

92  Albanesius, C. (18 Nov 2011) “Norway Cyber Attack Targets Country’s Oil, Gas Systems,” PCMag.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

19

Conclusion

World War Z told a story of idiosyncratic national behavior in response to a major international crisis.  
This report sought to highlight the same phenomenon in regard to the challenges posed by national 
cyber insecurity and international cyber attacks. Behind every incident is an agenda—and individual 
human beings—each unique and ultimately identifiable. The bigger the cyber campaign, the more 
data it generates for security researchers, and the more difficulty attackers will have remaining 
anonymous and hiding their agenda.

As for crystal balls: no one knows what the next cyber attack will look like. But considering recent trends, 
we can make a few educated guesses. 

Here are five factors that could change the world’s cyber security landscape in the near- to medium-term:

1. Outage of national critical infrastructure: we know that cyber attacks can disrupt government 

networks, but most current cases simply do not rise to the level of a national security threat. Stuxnet—
and Iran’s alleged retaliation against Saudi Aramco—has shifted the thinking on cyber war from 
theory to something closer to reality. But have we seen the limit of what cyber attacks can achieve, 
or could cybercriminals threaten public safety by downing a power grid or financial market?

2. Cyber arms treaty: if world leaders begin to view cyber attacks as more of a liability than an 

opportunity, they may join a cyber arms control regime or sign a non-aggression pact for 
cyberspace. However, arms control requires the ability to inspect for a prohibited item. President 
Reagan’s favorite Russian proverb was доверяй, но проверяй, or “trust but verify.” Given that a single 
USB stick can now hold billions of bits of information, verifying would be easier said than done.

3. PRISM, freedom of speech, and privacy: we are still at the dawn of the Internet era, and this 

conversation has only just begun. It encompasses Daniel Ellsberg, Chelsea Manning, and Edward 
Snowden, as well as the Declaration of Independence, Enigma, and The Onion Router (TOR). Today, 
politicians, spooks, and hippies are all aware of a critical debate on the horizon—just how much 
online privacy should we have?

4. New actors on the cyber stage: the revolutionary nature of computers and the amplification power  

of networks are not exclusive to the world’s largest nations. Iran, Syria, North Korea, and even non-
state actors such as Anonymous have employed cyber attacks as a way to conduct diplomacy and 
wage war by other means. Researchers have little reason to think that other governments are not 
active in this domain. Possible candidates could be: 

 

 

 

  a. Poland: it was the Poles who first broke the German Enigma cipher—way back in 1932!  
 

Today, with programming talent and well-known rivalry with Russia, it is a possibility.

 

  b. Brazil: Home to some of the world’s most prolific cybercriminals, will Brazil’s government,  
 

  be angry about recent revelations of U.S. cyber spying, harness this talent for geopolitical ends?

  c. Taiwan: with constant cyber attacks emanating from Mainland China, Taipei may have  
 

little choice but to react.

 

5. Stronger focus on evasion: as we have seen, some nation-states know how to launch stealthy cyber 
attacks. But as the discipline of cyber defense matures, and as public awareness of the World War C 
phenomenon grows, some “noisy” cyber attackers such as China may be forced to raise their game 
by trying to fly under a more finely tuned radar.

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

20

The analysis and conclusions drawn in this paper are conjectural. Cyber security, cyber espionage,  
and cyber war are new and rapidly evolving concepts. Furthermore, most computer network 
operations are shrouded in secrecy. Deception is a given. 

“A cyber attack, viewed outside of its geopolitical context, allows very little legal maneuvering room  
for the defending state,” said Prof. Thomas Wingfield of the Marshall Center, in a recent email interview 
with FireEye. “False flag operations and the very nature of the Internet make tactical attribution a 
losing game.”

But Wingfield adds that strategic attribution—fusing all sources of intelligence on a potential threat—
allows a much higher level of confidence and more options for government decision makers. 

“And strategic attribution begins and ends with geopolitical analysis,” he said.

With this in mind, we hope that an awareness of this World War C dynamic helps cyber security 
professionals better understand, identify, and combat cyber attacks in the future.

About FireEye
FireEye has invented a purpose-built, virtual machine-based security platform that provides real-time 
threat protection to enterprises and governments worldwide against the next generation of cyber 
attacks. These highly sophisticated cyber attacks easily circumvent traditional signature-based defenses, 
such as next-generation firewalls, IPS, anti-virus, and gateways. The FireEye Threat Prevention Platform 
provides real-time, dynamic threat protection without the use of signatures to protect an organization 
across the primary threat vectors, including Web, email, and files and across the different stages of 
an attack life cycle. The core of the FireEye platform is a virtual execution engine, complemented by 
dynamic threat intelligence, to identify and block cyber attacks in real time. FireEye has over 1,100 
customers across more than 40 countries, including over 100 of the Fortune 500.   

For more information on next-generation threat protection, visit www.FireEye.com

© 2013  FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of FireEye, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names  
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. – RPT.WWC.EN-US.092013

FireEye, Inc.      World War C: Understanding Nation-State Motives Behind Today’s Advanced Cyber Attacks 

21

FireEye, Inc. |  1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035  |  408.321.6300  |  877.FIREEYE (347.3393)  |  info@FireEye.com  |  www.FireEye.com

