Hidden Lynx – Professional
Hackers for Hire

Stephen Doherty,
Jozsef Gegeny,
Branko Spasojevic,
Jonell Baltazar

Version 1.0 – September 17, 2013

Follow us on Twitter
@threatintel

Visit our Blog
http://www.symantec.com/connect/symantec-blogs/sr

OVERVIEW ..................................................................... 3
Background ................................................................... 5
Who are the Hidden Lynx group? .................................. 5
Who are their targets? .................................................. 7
What is their motivation? .............................................. 7
Corporate Espionage ............................................... 8
Attacks against government contractors ................ 8
What are they capable of? ............................................ 8
Subverting trust protection models ........................ 8
Advanced zero-day access .................................... 13
Supply chain attacks ............................................. 14
Conclusion ................................................................... 16
Appendix ..................................................................... 18
Related attacks ...................................................... 18
Resources .................................................................... 25
Symantec Protection ................................................... 26

OVERVIEW

The Hidden Lynx group is a professional team of attackers with advanced capabilities. They 
were responsible for the compromise of security firm Bit9’s digital code-signing certificate 
which was used to sign malware. The Bit9 breach was part of the much larger VOHO 
campaign and that campaign was just one of many operations undertaken by the group over 
the last four years.

The group likely offers a “hackers for hire” operation and is tasked with retrieving specific 
information from a wide range of corporate and government targets. They are a highly 
efficient team who can undertake multiple campaigns at once, breach some of the world’s 
best-protected organizations and can change their tactics quickly to achieve their goal. 
They usually attack using multiple customized Trojans designed for specific purposes. 
Backdoor.Moudoor is used for larger campaigns and has seen widespread distribution while 
Trojan.Naid is reserved for special operations against high value targets. The group uses 
cutting-edge attack techniques which makes this team stand out from other major attack 
groups.

This paper takes an in-depth look at the Hidden Lynx group, their targets and their 
motivations. It will look into their capabilities and attack strategies through their attack 
campaigns including the Bit9 incident.

A well-known 
group with 
affiliations to 
“Operation 
Aurora” managed 
to break into Bit9’s 
network using 
an SQL injection 
attack. 

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Background

In February 2013, Bit9 released a statement revealing that in July 2012, their network had been compromised by 
a malicious third-party. A well-known group named Hidden Lynx with affiliations to “Operation Aurora” managed 
to break into Bit9’s network using an SQL injection attack. These Trojans made their way into the defense 
industrial sector. 

However, the Bit9 compromise was only a small piece of a much larger watering-hole operation known as the 
VOHO campaign, which impacted hundreds of organizations in the United States. Further, the VOHO campaign 
itself was just one campaign of many that is attributable to this incredibly prolific group. Each campaign is 
designed to access information in governmental and commercial organizations that tend to operate in the 
wealthiest and most technologically advanced countries in the world.

Who are the Hidden Lynx group?

The Hidden Lynx group has been in operation since at least 2009 and is most likely a professional organization 
that offers a “hackers for hire” service. They have the capability to attack many organizations with concurrently 
running campaigns. They operate efficiently and move quickly and methodically. Based on these factors, the 
Hidden Lynx group would need to be a sizeable organization made up of between 50 and 100 individuals.

The members of this group are experts at breaching systems. They engage in a two-pronged strategy of mass 
exploitation and pay-to-order targeted attacks for intellectual property using two Trojans designed specifically 
for each purpose:
•  Team Moudoor distributes Backdoor.Moudoor, a customized version of “Gh0st RAT”, for large-scale campaigns 

across several industries. The distribution of Moudoor requires a sizeable number of people to both breach 
targets and retrieve the information from the compromised networks. 

•  Team Naid distributes Trojan.Naid, the Trojan found during the Bit9 incident, which appears to be reserved 
for more limited attacks against high value targets. This Trojan was leveraged for a special operation during 
the VOHO campaign and is probably used by a specific team of highly skilled attackers within the group. This 
Trojan was also found as part of “Operation Aurora” in 2009.

Much of the attack infrastructure and tools used during these campaigns originate from network infrastructure 
in China. The Hidden Lynx group makes regular use of zero-day exploits and has the ability to rework and 
customize exploits quickly. They are methodical in their approach and they display a skillset far in advance of 
some other attack groups also operating in that region, such as the Comment Crew (also known as APT1). The 
Hidden Lynx group is an advanced persistent threat that has been in operation for at least four years and is 
breaking into some of the best-protected organizations in the world. With a zero-day attack already under their 
belt in 2013, they continue to operate at the leading edge of targeted attacks.

Page 5

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Who are their targets?

Since November 2011, hundreds 
of organizations worldwide have 
been targeted by the Hidden Lynx 
group. These organizations have 
remained relatively consistent during 
this time period. The group targets 
organizations operating in both the 
commercial sector and within all 
levels of government. The diverse set 
of targets from a variety of sectors 
would indicate that this group is not 
focused on any one specific task. The 
group manages concurrent campaigns 
in attacks that are global in nature. 

The Hidden Lynx group has most 
recently conducted attacks against 
specific organizations in South Korea 
and has a long history of attacking the 
defense industrial sector of Western 
countries.

The top 10 organizations categorized 
by the verticals they belong to are 
shown in Figure 1. 

The most targeted countries/regions 
are shown in Figure 2.

What is their motivation?

This broad range of targeted 
information would indicate that the 
attackers are part of a professional 
organization. They are likely 
tasked with obtaining very specific 
information that could be used to 
gain competitive advantages at both 
a corporate and nation state level. 
It is unlikely that this organization 
engages in processing or using the 
stolen information for direct financial 
gain. Their mode of operation would 
suggest that they may be a private 
organization of “hackers for hire”, 
who are highly skilled, experienced 
professionals whose services are 
available for those willing to pay. 

Figure 1. Top 10 organizations targeted by the Hidden Lynx group since 
November 2011

Figure 2. Countries/regions targeted by the Hidden Lynx group since  
November 2011

Page 7

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Corporate Espionage

The financial services sector has been identified as the most heavily targeted industry overall. There is a 
tendency to target specific companies within this sector. Investment banks and asset management agencies 
account for the majority of organizations targeted within this industry. The absence of certain types of financial 
institutions, such as those operating as commercial banks, clearly indicates that the attacks are focusing on 
specific areas. The organizations involved would have expertise in large corporate deals, such as confidential 
information on upcoming mergers and acquisitions, which could be used to gain a competitive edge. Targeting 
this sector in such a concentrated fashion could provide invaluable information when negotiating large takeovers 
or trading shares on the stock exchange.

Attacks on the financial sector are not limited to investment banks. Stock trading firms and one of the world’s 
largest stock exchanges have been subjected to attacks from this group. The Hidden Lynx group has also 
undertaken indirect attacks through the supply chains. Organizations that supply hardware, secure network 
communications and services specific to the financial sector have also come under attack. There is almost 
certainly a financial motivation behind these attacks. 

Attacks against government contractors

In attacks that have targeted all levels of government from local to national level, this group has repeatedly 
attempted to infiltrate these networks. Attacks against government contractors and, more specifically, the 
defense industry indicate that the group is in pursuit of confidential information and suggests that the group 
had been working for nation states.

Targeting advanced technologies in specific areas such as aerospace would be useful in order to close 
technological gaps or gain knowledge of the advanced capabilities of other nation states. Attacks on 
organizations that operate in the Internet services space can provide a wealth of valuable information. The group 
had affiliations to “Operation Aurora” (See appendix for more details), a campaign that targeted a number of 
organizations including software manufacturers and defense contractors. More recently, Microsoft claimed that 
the target was databases containing emails marked for court order wiretaps. They believe that these attacks 
were counter-intelligence operations, activities that would provide benefits at a nation state level.

What are they capable of?

The group’s tools, tactics and procedures are innovative and typically cutting-edge. They use custom tools and 
techniques that they tailor to meet their objectives and maximize their chance of success. They attack public-
facing infrastructure and have been observed installing highly customized Trojans that are purpose-built for 
stealth. They engineered one of the most successful watering-hole attacks to-date. They also undertake spear-
phishing attacks and hack supply chains in order to distribute their custom Trojans. This is an established team 
with years of experience. They are well resourced and highly skilled. 

The Hidden Lynx group’s advanced capabilities are clearly demonstrated in three major campaigns. In the VOHO 
campaign, they showed how they could subvert Bit9’s established trust models. In the FINSHO campaign, they 
managed to get advanced knowledge of a zero-day exploit and in the SCADEF operation, they undertook supply 
chain attacks to succeed in their campaign.

Subverting trust protection models

The team can adapt rapidly to counter-measures that would otherwise hinder the success of a campaign. The 
attack on Bit9 showed how the group could bypass solid trust protection models to get to their targets. However, 
this attack was only a small part of the larger VOHO campaign, where the group proved how quickly they can 
adapt and change their tactics in the face of new and unforeseen obstacles.

Page 8

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

The Bit9 incident
Bit9 is a security company headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts. As an alternative to traditional 
signature-based antivirus solutions, Bit9 offers a trust-based security platform that runs off of a cloud-based 

reputation service combined with policy-driven 
application control and whitelisting to protect against 
cyberthreats. As a result, it is difficult for a malicious 
third-party to install an untrusted application, such 
as a remote access Trojan (RAT), onto a system 
that is adequately protected with the Bit9 platform. 
Undaunted by this, the elite Hidden Lynx group took 
up the challenge.

On February 8 2013, Bit9 released details revealing 
that a malicious third-party had gained access to one 
of their digital code-signing certificates. During this 
incident, a number of Trojans and malicious scripts 
were signed. In a follow up post on February 25, more 
details of the attack emerged. In July 2012, more than 
six months earlier, a malicious third-party gained 
access to their network using an SQL injection attack. 
Due to an operational oversight, a public-facing 
server that wasn’t protected with the Bit9 platform 
allowed the attackers to gain unauthorized access. 

The attackers installed Backdoor.Hikit, a Trojan 
that provides extremely stealthy remote access to 
compromised systems. This highly customized Trojan 
is typically installed onto servers in the victims’ DMZ, 
which was the case at Bit9. Credentials for another 
virtual machine were then stolen. These were used 
to access the virtual machine that contained one of 
Bit9’s digital code-signing certificates. The attackers 

used this code-signing infrastructure to sign 
thirty-two malicious files. Symantec telemetry 
shows some of these files have been present 
within select organizations in the United States 
defense industrial sector. 

Figure 3. Trojan.Naid – Bit9 digital certific ate, July 13, 
2012, provided by Symantec’s CA

The signing of these files is significant, since 
they could then be used to circumvent the 
trust protection model offered by the Bit9 
platform. The Trojans signed include variants 
of Backdoor.Hikit (the remote access Trojan 
used in the initial compromise) and another 
RAT called Trojan.Naid. Some malicious attack 
scripts were also signed. Each Trojan has a 
specific purpose. Backdoor.Hikit was used to 
target public-facing infrastructure while Trojan.
Naid was used to perform highly targeted 
attacks through email and watering-holes.

Bit9 was alerted to the compromise in January 
2013 and took immediate containment steps 
such as revoking the digital signature and 
reaching out to their entire customer base. 
According to Bit9, the attacks that followed 

Figure 4. Trojans successfully acquired with command-and-
control (C&C) servers from the Bit9 investigation

Page 9

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

were not financially motivated, but rather were an attempt to access information. On Bit9’s own admission, 
three customers were impacted.

In conjunction with the Bit9 compromise, the Hidden Lynx group had another significant campaign well under 
way. They had just concluded phase one of the VOHO campaign, a watering-hole operation orchestrated to 
attack organizations in the Boston, Massachusetts area – it was a likely a distribution vector for the newly signed 
files.
The VOHO campaign
The VOHO campaign, first publicized by RSA, is one of the 
largest and most successful watering-hole attacks to date. 
The campaign combined both regional and industry-specific 
attacks and predominantly targeted organizations that 
operate in the United States. In a rapidly spreading two-
phase attack, which started on June 25 and finished July 18, 
nearly 4,000 machines had downloaded a malicious payload. 
These payloads were being delivered to unsuspecting 
victims from legitimate websites that were strategically 
compromised.

This watering-hole infection technique was quite innovative 
at the time. In a watering-hole attack, the attacker 
compromises a legitimate website that the target uses and 
trusts. The attacker then lies in wait for the target to visit 
the compromised site in order to infect them. The scale and 
targeted nature of the VOHO campaign set it apart from 
watering-hole attacks observed in the past. The group first 
adopted this technique in December 2011 when an exploit 
for the Oracle Java SE Rhino Script Engine Remote Code 
Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2011-3544) was leveraged to 
distribute their payloads. As a result of their success, many 
other strategic compromises have 
been adopted by other attack groups, 
as seen in a notable attack targeting 
iOS developers earlier in 2013 which 
impacted employees at Facebook, 
Apple and Twitter.

Figure 5. The VOHO campaign target regions and 
industries

In the VOHO campaign, ten legitimate 
websites were strategically 
compromised. The attackers carefully 
selected these websites based on 
the likelihood that the intended 
target(s) would visit them during the 
exploit delivery phase. The attackers 
likely pre-determined who visited 
the watering-hole in advance of the 
distribution phase of attack. This 
could easily be achieved by examining 
the access logs of compromised Web 
servers. The categories of websites 
compromised were both regional 
and industry-specific in nature and 
targeted the following key areas 
illustrated in Figure 5.

Figure 6. The VOHO campaign malicious activity timeline - 
a two-phase attack

Page 10

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Timeline of activity
The VOHO watering-hole distributed remote access Trojans in two phases. In phase one of the attack, an Internet 
Explorer zero-day vulnerability, the Microsoft XML Core Services CVE-2012-1889 Remote Code Execution 
Vulnerability (CVE-2012-1889), was leveraged. On July 10, Microsoft introduced the patch for CVE-2012-1889 
and activity at the watering-hole ceased. This appears to have been a clever decision on behalf of the attackers. 
If they continued to deliver the exploit, they risked detection and would have hurt their chances of retaining 
access to the watering-hole for phase two of the campaign. Within six days, phase two of the distribution began, 
this time using a malicious Java applet exploiting the Oracle Java SE CVE-2012-1723 Remote Code Execution 
Vulnerability (CVE-2012-1723). This Java exploit was patched at the time. Having already used two zero-day 
exploits in quick succession (the first zero-day exploit was used in the GOTHAM campaign in May 2012, see 
appendix for more details), the Hidden Lynx group may not have had another one at their disposal.

The timeline of activity at the watering-hole is shown in Figure 6.

In each phase of the attack, two Trojans were being distributed at different intervals. The customized version 
of “Gh0st RAT”, Backdoor.Moudoor, saw large-scale distribution in comparison to Trojan.Naid, which was used 
more selectively in these attacks. 

Before being used in the second phase of the attack, Trojan.Naid was signed with the Bit9 certificate. Moudoor 
was never observed during the attack on Bit9, which could indicate that two separate teams are at work 
here. With Moudoor and Naid using different command-and-control (C&C) servers, each team could work 
independently on alternative objectives. The discovery of the Naid C&C would also be less likely in comparison 
to Moudoor’s, as its large-scale distribution would inevitably create more noise as it continued to impact many 
organizations.

Figure 7. The VOHO campaign – Trojans distributed and C&C servers used to command and control

Page 11

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Team Naid’s role
During this campaign, Team Naid had a very specific objective – to gain access to information from organizations 
operating in the defense industrial sector. An unsigned version of Naid was distributed to select victims within 
the defense industrial sector during phase one until Microsoft supplied a patch for CVE-2012-1889 on July 10. It 
may have been during this phase of the attack when the team realized the information they sought was held by 
organizations protected by Bit9. As the team found it difficult to compromise Bit9-protected computers and had 
no viable exploit for distribution, their immediate objective focused on Bit9’s digital code-signing certificate.

By July 13, just a few days after they started their attacks on Bit9, they obtained the Bit9-signed Naid. By the 
next day, they had built a viable Java exploit to distribute their Trojan. Armed with the newly-signed Trojan and 
delivery vehicle, the group resumed malicious activity at the watering-hole for three days from July 16. It was 
during this period that three organizations protected with the Bit9 platform were successfully compromised. 

In this campaign, Naid was specifically reserved for special operations against high value targets. Team Naid’s 
objective was narrow and focused and the team aimed to limit Naid’s exposure. The sophistication of the 
overall attack is typical of attackers with a very high pedigree. The team is clearly highly skilled; they operate 
methodically and can switch objectives at a moment’s notice. They rapidly adapted to external factors that were 
hindering their specific objective and pursued a difficult prize - the Bit9 certificate - in order to achieve their 
overall goal. 
Team Moudoor’s role
The distribution of Moudoor 
during this campaign was on a 
much larger scale. Organizations 
operating in the financial sector, 
all levels of government (local and 
federal), healthcare, education 
and law were impacted during 
this campaign. There is a wealth 
of sensitive information within 
these organizations which would 
be of interest to both nation states 
and entities that would benefit 
from information as a result of 
corporate espionage attacks. 

The top distinct infections per 
organization type are shown in 
Figure 8. 

A campaign distributing Moudoor 
on such a large scale would 
require a sizeable team to 
operate and maintain remote 
access to these compromised 
computers. The breach phase 
of the operation could easily 
be handled by a smaller team, 
which then passes control to a 
larger team of operators who can 
traverse networks and retrieve the 
information they are tasked with 
gaining access to. To efficiently 

Figure 8. Industries with the most Backdoor.Moudoor infections during the 
VOHO campaign

Page 12

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

attack this many organizations concurrently would require an equally large number of operators. These Trojans 
require manual operation so it’s conceivable that tens if not hundreds of operators would be used post-breach to 
process and handle the stolen data.

The VOHO campaign is one of a number of campaigns attributed to this group over the last four years. It showed 
how quickly the group could change their strategy and the lengths they would go to get to their targets. The fact 
that the Bit9 code-signing certificate breach was only a small part of this campaign shows how adaptable and 
determined the group is.

Advanced zero-day access

The group is highly organized and can gain advanced access to zero-day vulnerabilities. In February, the Hidden 
Lynx group used this advanced knowledge to take advantage of the  Oracle Java SE CVE-2013-1493 Remote 
Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2013-1493) to attack Japanese targets in the FINSHO campaign.
FINSHO
Within two days of Bit9’s 
blog post on February 
25, the attackers began 
distributing Moudoor 
and Naid in a campaign 
that leveraged CVE-2013-
1493. Interestingly, the 
C&C server configured in 
Naid (110.173.55.187) 
was also configured in 
a sample found in the 
Bit9 incident. Although 
the version used against 
Bit9 was not observed 
elsewhere in the wild, 
the group’s methodical 
approach would indicate 
that a similar campaign 
may have been intended 
for that Trojan.

The timeline for exploit 
development and 
distribution is illustrated 
in Figure 9.

Figure 9. Timeline of activity for CVE-2013-1493 distributing Moudoor and Naid 
in the FINSHO campaign

According to Oracle’s blog, 
CVE-2013-1493 was reported to 
them on February 1, the same day 
that class files exploiting it were 
added to MightDev.jar shown in 
Figure 10. In past Java exploits 
used by this group, the code was 
already public knowledge and a 
patch was already available for the 
software. In this case, they gained 
advanced knowledge from an unknown source - a source with early access to the exploit conditions, possibly on 
the same day as Oracle. Oracle released the fix for CVE-2013-1493 on March 4.

 Figure 10. MightDev.jar used to distribute Naid and subsequently Moudoor

Page 13

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Figure 11 illustrates the 
relationship between FINSHO 
and the Bit9 incident through the 
shared C&C server used in both 
Naid configurations.

Alternate C&C servers and separate 
websites for distribution provide 
further evidence that there are 
distinctions between how these 
teams operate.

Supply chain attacks

The Hidden Lynx group continued 
to attack the defense industry 
post-VOHO. In another campaign 
named SCADEF, manufacturers 
and suppliers of military-grade 
computers were observed installing 
a Trojanized Intel driver application.

Figure 11. CVE-2013-1493 used to distribute Trojan.Naid and 
Backdoor.Moudoor (February/March 2013) in the FINSHO campaign

SCADEF
The attackers bundled this Intel driver application with variants of Backdoor.Moudoor using a popular Chinese 
archiving application called Haozip. The attackers likely compromised a legitimate download of this driver 
application from a non-reputable source but the true source was never discovered in this investigation.

The technique is another 
avenue into hardened 
networks of interest. 
They attack not only 
hardware suppliers, but 
contractors that may 
access these networks 
during their course of 
work. The group seeks 
out the weakest link in 
the chain and simply lies 
in wait. In these specific 
attacks, they simply 
wait for a shipment of 
compromised computers 
to be installed into the 
targeted network. Unique 
detections observed 
for these Trojanized 
applications are 
presented in Figure 12.

Figure 12. Supply chain hacking detections in the IT supply/defense/healthcare industry

The VOHO, FINSHO and SCADEF campaigns each showed how efficient and adaptable the group is when focusing on 
their targets. They use a wide range of advanced attack methods and change their strategy when required to carry 
out each operation. These three campaigns are only some of the operations undertaken by the Hidden Lynx group, 
making them a credible threat to several industries.

Page 14

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Conclusion

Cyberespionage campaigns are becoming increasingly common, with countless threat actors attempting to gain 
footholds into some of the best-protected organizations. These attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated. 
The capabilities and tactics used by these threat actors vary considerably. The Hidden Lynx group is capable 
of undertaking focused attacks against niche targets and running large-scale campaigns targeting multiple 
organizations on a global scale. They have seen action in numerous campaigns since 2009 and repeatedly attack 
their targets with cutting-edge techniques. They quickly adapt to security counter-measures and are highly 
motivated. They are one of the most well-resourced and capable attack groups in the targeted threat landscape.

From the evidence seen, it’s clear that Hidden Lynx belongs to a professional organization. They operate in a highly 
efficient manner. They can attack on multiple fronts. They use the latest techniques, have access to a diverse set 
of exploits and have highly customized tools to compromise target networks. Their attacks, carried out with such 
precision on a regular basis over long periods of time, would require a well-resourced and sizeable organization. 
They possess expertise in many areas, with teams of highly skilled individuals who can adapt rapidly to the changing 
landscape. This team could easily consist of 50-100 individuals. This level of resources would be needed to build 
these Trojans, maintain infection and C&C infrastructure and pursue confidential information on multiple networks. 
They are highly skilled and experienced campaigners in pursuit of information of value to both commercial and 
governmental organizations.

The incident in Bit9, which ultimately led to successful compromises of hard-to-crack targets during the VOHO 
campaign, only serves to highlight this fact. The evolving targeted attack landscape is becoming increasingly 
sophisticated. As organizations implement security counter-measures, the attackers are adapting at a rapid rate. 
With a growing number of threat actors participating in these campaigns, organizations have to understand that 
sophisticated attackers are working hard to bypass each layer of security. It’s no longer safe to assume that any one 
solution will protect a company’s assets. A variety of solutions need to be combined and, with a better understanding 
of the adversary, tailored to adequately protect the information of most interest to the attackers.

The Hidden Lynx group’s mission is large and they’re targeting a diverse set of information. The frequency and 
diversity of these attacks would indicate that the attackers are tasked with sourcing information from many 
organizations. These tasks are likely distributed within the team. The group’s goal is to gain access to information 
within organizations in some of the wealthiest and most technologically advanced countries across the globe. It is 
unlikely that they can use this information for direct financial gain, and the diversity of the information and number 
of distinguishable campaigns would suggest that they are contracted by multiple clients. This leads us to believe that 
this is a professional organization that offers a “hackers for hire” service. 

The worrying knock-on effect of this group’s activities is that other threat actors are learning and adopting their 
techniques. The Hidden Lynx group is not basking in their past glories, they are continuing to refine and streamline 
their operations and techniques to stay one step ahead of their competition. Organizations that are being attacked 
on multiple fronts need to better protect the information that is most valuable to them. We expect these attackers 
to be involved in many more high profile campaigns in the coming years. They will continue to adapt and innovate.  
They will continue to provide information servicing interests at both a corporate and state level. Groups like Hidden 
Lynx are certainly winning some of the battles, but as organizations gain a better understanding of how these groups 
operate, they can take steps to help prevent their most valuable information from falling into attackers’ hands.

Page 16

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Appendix

Related attacks

Table 1. Vulnerabilities associated with Naid/Moudoor distribution 
(Nov 2011 – March 2013)
CVE

Exploit Website

Description

CVE-2011-3544 Oracle Java Rhino Script Engine

The three campaigns that 
have already been examined 
in detail are only a snapshot of 
the group’s activities. Since the 
time they adopted Moudoor in 
late 2011, persistent attacks 
against organizations across 
the globe have been occurring 
on a regular basis, even to this 
day. These attackers pioneered 
the watering-hole technique, 
however they can also fall back 
to more traditional methods of 
attack, such as spear-phishing 
emails, supply chain attacks and 
Trojanized software updates. 
Since 2011, the Hidden Lynx 
group has leveraged five 
browser-based exploits for payload distribution, three of which were zero-day exploits.

CVE-2012-1723 Oracle Java SE CVE-2012-1723 RCE 

CVE-2013-1493 Oracle Java SE RCE Vulnerability

CVE-2012-1875 Microsoft Internet Explorer -  

Vulnerability

Same ID Property RCE Vulnerability

CVE-2012-1889 Microsoft XML Core Services  

CVE-2012-1889 RCE Vulnerability

http://www.wsdhealthy.com 
http://www.tade.org.tw 
http://www.gnnet.co.kr
http://www.gothamcenter.org
http://www.villagemania.it
http://www.gothamcenter.org
http://www.torontocurling.com (VOHO) 
http://ansky.hk166.cqbi.com
http://www.torontocurling.com (VOHO)

http://www.k-sho.co.jp 
http://www.finesis.jp

The list of browser-based 
exploits used by the Hidden 
Lynx group since the 
introduction of Moudoor is 
presented in Table 1.

In the first half of 2012, 
there was a particularly high 
distribution of Moudoor. There 
was a peak in June/July as a 
result of the VOHO campaign 
which is evident in the graph 
shown in Figure 13.

There is also a peak at the 
beginning of the year which 
is a result of another high 
distribution campaign called 
WSDHEALTHY. This campaign, 
along with some other notable 
attacks and techniques, will 
be discussed in the following 
sections.
•  GOTHAM – Shared distribution, shared C&C – yet another zero day exploit
•  WSDHEALTHY – Watering-hole campaigns pre-dating VOHO by seven months
•  EASYUPDATE – Trojanizing a popular P2P software’s updates
 

 Figure 13. Unique infections of Moudoor and Naid (November 2011 – June 2013)

Page 18

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

GOTHAM – Campaigns running concurrently
On May 30th, The Hidden Lynx group used their first zero-day exploit of 2012, taking advantage of the Microsoft 
Internet Explorer CVE-2012-1875 Same ID Property Remote Code Execution Vulnerability  (CVE-2012-1875)  in order 
to distribute Moudoor and Naid from gothamcenter.org, a website devoted to the history of New York. This was a 
two-phase attack which saw Team Naid and Team Moudoor share C&C infrastructure (219.90.117.132) in a smaller 
campaign that infected organizations in the following industries:
•  Financial services
•  Information communications technology
•  Government
•  Marketing
•  Information technology
•  Aerospace/defense
•  Energy
Many of the industries 
targeted in this 
campaign are similar 
to those targeted in 
the VOHO campaign, 
so this could be 
considered as a 
pre-cursor to that 
campaign. Similar to 
VOHO, this was a two-
phased attack that 
leveraged two Internet 
Explorer zero-days 
for distribution (CVE-
2012-1875 and CVE-
2012-1889). Similar 
to VOHO, as Microsoft 
patched CVE-2012-
1875, the attackers 
halted distribution. 
This prevented 
any unnecessary 
suspicious activity from being identified that could 
impact future activity from the compromised website. 
A timeline for this activity is presented in Figure 14.

 Figure 14. Activity timeline on gothamcenter.org

Sharing C&C infrastructure could indicate that both 
teams were working closely together and may have 
divided up the effort during this campaign. During 
phase two of this campaign, VOHO began. The Hidden 
Lynx group is clearly resourced to operate and 
maintain distribution and C&C infrastructure across 
multiple campaigns. This level of organization requires 
discipline at multiple levels within the group. This 
is not a small group of elite hackers – this is a well-
organized professional organization. 

One campaign that rivals VOHO in terms of size is 
WSDHEALTHY. This is the first campaign where we see 
the group using Naid and Moudoor together sharing 
infrastructure and the first links to the Bit9 incident 

Figure 15. Moudoor and Naid share distribution and 
command and control servers

Page 19

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

start to emerge. 
WSDHEALTHY – Shared infrastructure with the Bit9 incident
The Hidden Lynx group began 
using watering-hole attacks 
as early as December 2011. 
Although no zero-day exploit 
was available, they used a 
patched Java exploit (CVE-
2011-3544) effectively to 
distribute Moudoor from three 
compromised websites. This 
campaign provided the first 
indications that the group was 
using both Moudoor and Naid 
to attack targets and share 
C&C infrastructure. Along with 
this, early links to the attacks 
on Bit9 began to emerge.

The timeline of this activity is 
shown in Figure 16.

In these campaigns, the 
Hidden Lynx group made 
heavy use of infrastructure in 
Hong Kong, with the exception 
of yahooeast.net. This is 
this domain that links to the 
Bit9 attack, as it resolved 
to 66.153.86.14 – a C&C 
server used by the Backdoor.
Hikit sample installed after 
the successful SQL injection 
attack on Bit9. Moudoor was 
being actively distributed from 
these websites for two, four 
and five months respectively. 
These are exceptionally long 
periods of time to retain access 
to compromised servers for 
payload distribution of this 
nature.  

The C&C servers used and the 
links between the Trojans and 
Bit9 are shown in Figure 17. 

Team Moudoor heavily relies 
on a dynamic DNS service 
called DTDNS to rapidly 
switch between C&C servers. 
In fact, they use direct IP 
connections or DTDNS 
exclusively to establish C&C 
communications, with the 

Figure 16. Timeline of malicious activity associated with CVE-2011-3544

Figure 17. CVE-2011-3544 - the first links between Moudoor and Naid emerge

Page 20

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

exception of yahooeast.net 
which is a registered domain. 
The Hidden Lynx group uses 
techniques which have clearly 
been established through 
experience to maintain this 
infrastructure for long periods of 
time. They adapt quickly and likely 
have a stockpile of C&C servers 
that they can quickly switch to 
which provides maximum uptime 
during any given operation. 

Along with this, the Hidden Lynx 
group uses several different 
methods to infect their targets. 
In the SCADEF campaign, we saw 
how the group bundled Moudoor 
with legitimate software to infect 
targets. They also managed to 
Trojanize software updates as 
well, as seen in the EASYUPDATE 
campaign where a Chinese 
P2P application was observed 
selectively installing Moudoor 
since 2011. 
EASYUPDATE – A 
Trojanized software 
update
Since November 2011, the Hidden 
Lynx group has been able to insert 
Moudoor into the distribution 
chain of one of the most popular 
Chinese P2P applications provided 
by VeryCD.com. There is a very 
low distribution of Trojanized 
updates and it is quite likely that 
they are somehow selectively 
installing Moudoor on specific 
clients. This is, without a doubt, 
the longest running distribution 
vector for the group, which 
infected victims predominantly in 
China, the United States and Hong 
Kong.

These are the earliest indications 
of Moudoor infections, with 
“kissnada” being one of the first 
DTDNS domains observed in use. 
This distribution vector’s exact 
purpose is still unclear, however 
it’s certainly linked to the group, 

Figure 18. Percentage breakdown of unique detections from VeryCD P2P client

Figure 19. Moudoor variants downloaded through P2P client updates

Page 21

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

as we have observed Moudoor 
samples in WSDHEALTHY 
configured to use kissnada58.
chatnook.com and usa-
mail.scieron.com for C&C 
communications.

The Hidden Lynx group 
has left a clear fingerprint 
for the past two years with 
clearly identifiable links to 
the group’s activities. The 
use of customized Trojans, 
shared distribution and 
C&C infrastructure, coupled 
with repeated attacks on 
a predictable set of target 
organizations has allowed 
a more complete picture of 
these attacks to be compiled. A 
summary of the links between 
all of these attacks is presented 
in Figure 20.

Trojans used by the 
Hidden Lynx group

The following section lists the 
Trojans that were used by the 
Hidden Lynx group throughout 
their various campaigns.
Backdoor.Moudoor
In 2011, the Hidden Lynx 
group began to use Backdoor.
Moudoor. This is a customized 
version of “Gh0st RAT”. 
Gh0st RAT variants have 
been used in cyberespionage 
campaigns emanating from 
China for years. In 2009, 
Information Warfare Monitor 
published a detailed report, 
“Tracking GhostNet”, following an investigation 
into a cyberespionage network of more than 1,000 
compromised computers affecting more than 100 
countries. Many threat actors use customized versions of 
this RAT for cyberespionage operations. 
Trojan.Naid
The team uses Trojan.Naid for special operations. It 
first appeared in May 2009 and has been used in many 
high profile attacks over the past four years. It shares 

 Figure 20. Linking the group’s activity (November 2011-March 2013)

 Figure 21. Naid/Vasport obfuscation tool

Page 22

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

technical similarities with other Trojans which also originate from China. All of these Trojans are potentially from 
the same group or they may source these Trojans from the same developer. The technical similarities are based on a 
shared file creation template and C&C protocol.

The other Trojans that share these traits are:
•  Backdoor.Vasport
•  Backdoor.Boda
File creation template
%TEMP%\uid.ax
%%TEMP%%\%s.ax
%%TEMP%%\%s _ p.ax

Command and control template

POST http://%ls:%d/%x HTTP/1.1
Content-Length: 2
CONNECT %ls:%d HTTP/1.1
Connection: keep-alive
lynx

There is also evidence that 
Backdoor.Vasport and Trojan.
Naid have shared the same 
packer to obfuscate the 
payloads from AV detection. 
The obfuscation tool used is 
also Chinese in origin and has 
a simple user interface to help 
pack these Trojans.

Naid also has a history of using 
stolen digital certificates to 
overcome trust-based protection 
when attacking certain hardened 
targets. Some of the certificates 
identified are shown in Figure 22.
Backdoor.Vasport
Backdoor.Vasport was delivered 
by exploiting the Adobe Flash 
Player CVE-2012-0779 Object 
Type Confusion Remote Code 
Execution Vulnerability (CVE-
2012-0779). This was delivered 
in malicious Word documents 
in targeted attack emails. The 
exploit component used in these 
attacks was also used in the 
Elderwood Platform. 

 Figure 22. Stolen digital certificates used by Trojan.Naid

Table 2. Backdoor.Vasport payload from malicious Word documents
PE Timestamp MD5

C&C

Table 2 shows the payload from 
the malicious word documents.
Backdoor.Boda
In a more recent campaign called Ladyboyle, Backdoor.Boda was being distributed to take advantage of the Adobe 

6fe1634dce1d095d6b8a06757b5b6041 svr01.passport.serveuser.com

27/04/2012 22:07

Page 23

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Flash Player CVE-2013-0634 Remote Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2013-0634). These files were 
signed with a digital signature from MGAME Corporation, a tactic used previously by the attackers. Interestingly, 
Backdoor.Boda and 
Backdoor.Vasport were both 
distributed using Flash zero-
day exploits in embedded 
documents. It’s plausible 
that the group has a team 
dedicated to distribution 
using Flash exploits that 
customizes Trojans from the 
same code base that the Naid 
uses. 
Trojan.Hydraq 
(Operation Aurora)
The Hidden Lynx group has 
used cutting-edge attack 
techniques and a consistent 
methodology. Trojan.Naid 
has been in use since 2009 
and Hidden Lynx attacks 
bear the hallmarks of a 
campaign that involved yet 
another Internet Explorer 
zero-day exploit in December 
2009. Trojan.Naid was 
used in the infamous 
attacks on organizations in 
the financial, technology, 
Internet and media sectors 
called “Operation Aurora”. 
These attacks are linked 
with another Trojan called 
Trojan.Hydraq, but Naid was 
downloaded in stage three of 
the operation. 

Trojan.Hydraq disappeared 
from the targeted attack 
landscape shortly after 
Operation Aurora, most likely 
due to the close attention 
that it was receiving from 
security researchers. Trojan.Naid did not meet the same fate, as it is still being used in sophisticated targeted 
attacks to this day.

 Figure 23. Trojan.Naid links to Hydraq and Operation Aurora

Page 24

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Resources

•  http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/hydraq-attack-mythical-proportions
•  http://googleblog.blogspot.ie/2010/01/new-approach-to-china.html
•  https://blog.bit9.com/2013/02/08/bit9-and-our-customers-security/
•  https://blog.bit9.com/2013/02/25/bit9-security-incident-update/
•  http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-082113-5541-99
•  http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-061518-4639-99
•  http://blogs.rsa.com/wp-content/uploads/VOHO_WP_FINAL_READY-FOR-Publication-09242012_AC.pdf
•  http://threatpost.com/why-watering-hole-attacks-work-032013 
•  http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/latest-java-zero-day-shares-connections-bit9-security-incident
•  http://www.cio.com/article/732122/_Aurora_Cyber_Attackers_Were_Really_Running_Counter_Intelligence
•  http://www.infowar-monitor.net/2009/09/tracking-ghostnet-investigating-a-cyber-espionage-network/
•  http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-051606-5938-99
•  http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/elderwood-project
•  http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/adobe-zero-day-used-ladyboyle-attack

Page 25

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Symantec Protection

Many different Symantec protection technologies play a role in defending against this threat, including:

Symantec

Endpoint Protection

Norton

360

Norton

Internet Security

Norton
Anitvirus

File-based protection

Network-based protection

Behavior-based protection

Norton Safeweb

Download Insight

Application & device control

Browser protection

File-based protection (Traditional antivirus)

Traditional antivirus protection is designed to detect and block malicious files and is effective against files 
associated with this attack.
•  Trojan.Hydraq
•  Backdoor.Moudoor
•  Trojan.Naid
•  Backdoor.Hikit
•  Backdoor.Vasport
•  Backdoor.Boda

Page 26

Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire

Network-based protection (IPS)

Network-based protection in Symantec Endpoint Protection can help protect against unauthorized network 
activities conducted by malware threats or intrusion attempts. 
•  Web Attack: Oracle Java Rhino Script Engine CVE-2011-3544 (24700)
•  Web Attack: Oracle Java Rhino Script Engine CVE-2011-3544 3 (24917)
•  Web Attack: MSIE Same ID Property CVE-2012-1875 (25787)
•  Web Attack: MSIE Same ID Property CVE-2012-1875 2 (26485)
•  Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 (25783)
•  Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 2 (50331)
•  Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 3 (25786)
•  Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 4 (25986)
•  Web Attack: Java CVE-2012-1723 RCE (26051)
•  Web Attack: Java CVE-2012-1723 RCE 2 (26080)
•  Web Attack: Oracle Java Type Confusion Attack CVE-2012-1723 4 (25962)
•  Web Attack: Oracle Java SE CVE-2012-1723 Remote Code Execution Vulnerability 3 (25934)
•  Web Attack: Java CVE-2013-1493 RCE (26556)
•  Web Attack: Java CVE-2013-1493 RCE 2 (26525)

Behavior-based protection

Behavior-based detection blocks suspicious processes using the Bloodhound.SONAR series of detections

Reputation-based protection (Insight)

•  Norton Safeweb blocks users from visiting infected websites.
•  Insight detects and warns against suspicious files as WS.Reputation.1 

Page 27

Stephen Doherty
Senior Threat Intelligence Analyst

Jozsef Gegeny
Software Engineer

Branko Spasojevic
Sr Software Engineer

Jonell Baltazar
Sr Software Engineer

Follow us on Twitter
@threatintel

Visit our Blog
http://www.symantec.com/connect/symantec-blogs/sr

About Symantec
Symantec protects the world’s information and is the 
global leader in security, backup, and availability solutions. 
Our innovative products and services protect people and 
information in any environment—from the smallest mobile 
device to the enterprise data center to cloud-based systems. 

Our industry-leading expertise in protecting data, 
identities, and interactions gives our customers confidence 
in a connected world. More information is available at 
www.symantec.com or by connecting with Symantec at 
go.symantec.com/socialmedia.

Headquartered in Mountain View, Calif.,  
Symantec has operations in 40 countries. 
More information is available at www.symantec.com.

Copyright  ©  2013  Symantec  Corporation.  All 
rights reserved. Symantec, the Symantec Logo, 
and  the  Checkmark  Logo  are  trademarks  or 
registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation 
or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. 
Other  names  may  be  trademarks  of  their 
respective owners.

