OPERATION HANGOVER |Executive Summary 

Unveiling an Indian Cyberattack Infrastructure 

This report details a sophisticated cyberattack infrastructure that appears to originate from India, 

conducted by private threat actors with no evidence of state-sponsorship.  It has likely been in 

operation for over three years, primarily as a platform for surveillance against targets of national 

security interest that are mostly based in Pakistan and possibly in the United States.  It is also 

used for industrial espionage against the Norwegian telecom corporation Telenor and other civil-

ian corporations.  Evidence points to professional project management and outsourcing of key 

tasks, including some by freelance programmers. 

On March 17, 2013 a Norwegian newspaper reported that the country’s telecommunications giant 

Telenor had filed a criminal police case for an unlawful computer intrusion. Spear phishing 

emails targeting upper management appeared to be the source of the infection  

Through extensive analysis, security analysts at Norman Shark in conjunction with our partners, 

quickly uncovered a previously unknown and sophisticated infrastructure for targeted attacks. 

Norman Confidential   

 

 

 

 

 

 

HangOver Report Executive Summary 4/25/2013 

Cyberattack Objectives 
The primary purpose of this long-running, global command-and-control net-
work appears to be surveillance against national security interests.  Private-
sector industrial espionage in fields as diverse as natural resources, telecommu-
nications, law, food & restaurants, and manufacturing is likely a secondary pur-
pose of this network. 
 
Target Selection 
Based on analysis of IP addresses collected from criminal data stores discov-
ered during the investigation, it appears that potential victims have been target-
ed in over a dozen countries, most heavily represented by Pakistan, Iran, and the 
United States.  Targets include government, military, and civilian organizations 
 
Highly-Targeted Social Engineering Tactics 
Spear phishing to carefully-selected target individuals was the primary attack 
vector identified in the investigation.  The attackers went to great lengths to 
make the social engineering aspects of the attack appear as credible and applica-
ble as possible. 
 
In many cases, decoy files and websites were used, specifically geared to the 
particular sensibilities of regional targets including cultural and religious sub-
ject matter.  Victims would click on what appeared to be an interesting docu-
ment, and  begin the long-running infection cycle. 
 
Exploit Tools and Techniques 
Despite all of the recent media attention on so-called “zero-day” exploits en-
compassing brand new, never-before-seen attack methods, Operation Hangover 
appears to have relied exclusively upon well-known, previously identified vul-
nerabilities in Java, Word documents, and web browsers. 
 
Favored methods include documents infected with malicious code, along with 
direction to malicious websites with names deliberately similar to legitimate 
government, entertainment, security related, and commercial sites.  Often the 
user would be presented with a legitimate document or software download they 
were expecting to see, along with an unseen malicious download. 
 
Infrastructure Development 
Operation Hangover utilizes a very extensive and sophisticated command-and-
control infrastructure, likely developed over many months or years by numer-
ous developers.  Our investigation revealed evidence of professional project 
management practices used to design frameworks, modules, and sub-
components.  Individual malware authors were assigned certain tasks, and com-
ponents were “outsourced” to what appear to be freelance programmers. 
 
Attribution of Responsibility 
In recent months, much focus has been on China – including both state-
sponsored and individual actors – but Operation Hangover contains notable 
hallmarks of originating exclusively in India.  We base this attribution with a 
very high degree of confidence on our extensive analysis of IP addresses, web-
site domain registrations, and text-based identifiers contained within the mali-
cious code itself.  All indications point to private syndicates of threat actors 
following their own motivations, with no direct evidence of state-sponsorship 
by the Indian government or by any other nation. 

ATTACK OVERVIEW 

· · · 

Discovery of a security breach at 
Norway-based Telenor uncovered a 
long running, sophisticated global 
cyberattack infrastructure that likely 
continues to this day. 
 

Cyberattack Objectives 

  National security interests 
  Industrial espionage 

Target Selection 

  Primarily Pakistani and US-based 

targets 

  Business targets 

Highly-Targeted Social Engineer-
ing Tactics 

  Executables disguised as docu-

ments 

  Malicious web downloads 

Exploit Tools and Techniques 

  Known vulnerabilities only 
  No use of zero-day exploits 

Infrastructure Development 

  Evidence of professional project 

management 

  Outsourcing of development 

Attribution of Responsibility 

  Individual actors likely based in 

India 

  Private data security firms hired 

to build specific infrastructure 
components 

  No evidence of state-sponsored 

activity 

Contact information:  
 

Gary Thompson, 925.768.2400  
Tim Johnson, 415.385.9537  
norman@claritycommunications.us  

Norman Confidential   

 

 

 

 

 

 

HangOver Report Executive Summary 4/25/2013 

