The PlugX malware revisited:

introducing “Smoaler”

By Gabor Szappanos, Principal Researcher, SophosLabs

July 2013

In a recent SophosLabs article about the PlugX malware family [A], we concluded 
with these words:

There is no doubt that PlugX development will go on, and new features and 
tricks will be introduced. 
We'll keep an eye on them, and if any interesting or important new features 
appear, we'll be sure to let you know. 

Fast forward just under two months, and we're ready to tell you the next stage in 
this ongoing saga.

The malware family we'll be looking at in this report is known as Smoaler, and it 
shares many features with PlugX, notably that:

• Smoaler relies on the same vulnerability, CVE-2012-0158. [B] 
• Smoaler uses the same exploit shellcode.
• Smoaler uses similar visual distractions, or decoys, with a Tibetan theme.
• Smoaler uses the same initial malware modules to initiate infection.

Thereafter, the new malware follows a different path to the PlugX samples we 
looked at last time.

We shall analyse the “what happens next” component of Smoaler later on.

To clarify the terminology we have used above, remember that:

• A vulnerability is a software bug that could potentially be abused to make 

your computer behave insecurely.

• An exploit is a real-world trick by which a vulnerability can be activated to 

bypass security.

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                 1

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                           Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

• Shellcode is runnable program code delivered inside a file that is supposed 

to be plain data, and therefore implicitly safe, but that can be executed 
without the user's knowledge or consent by exploiting a vulnerability.

• Initial malware modules, also called droppers, are malware components, 

often delivered or activated by shellcode, used to deliver the full malware, or 
payload, that the attacker wants to install.

How Smoaler arrives 
The Smoaler samples seen by SophosLabs were all packaged into files with the 
extensions .DOC or .DOCX. These extensions usually denote files specific to 
Microsoft Word that were created by Microsoft Word.

Despite the extensions, however, all the files were actually in Rich Text Format 
(RTF), a text-based file format for representing documents.

Fig 1: RTF content of one of the Smoaler samples received by SophosLabs

We assume that the attackers chose RTF because its text structure makes it easier 
to manipulate to create a working exploit for the CVE-2012-0158 vulnerability.

As with PlugX, the Smoaler files arrived with Tibetan-themed subject lines:

Filenames 

File sizes 

 Selected quotes from the book.docx
 Press Release - Heart is Noble book launch.doc
 TIBATIAN PROBLEM.doc [sic]
 Backgrounder on His Holiness the Karmapa.docx
 Why Tibet Matters Now Oct 1 final version.doc
404,220 bytes
294,096 bytes
1,086,312 bytes
397,564 bytes
7,858,097 bytes

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        2

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

SHA1 checksums 

56e8c76cd88996da9b88901520f72ebb743e55ff
a99b73b56fe94375ec46e51903f815d86afbd78d
b2f854e9987bce5d110349a354588568ab49726b
c093d4cd2390617da58bd412c9219e013de503a3
b84a133cf02eaa7b8a8096e997bda28fc482cf78

Sophos detection  Exp/20120158-A 

If you open an infected document on an unpatched, unprotected computer, the 
shellcode in the document will activate and run.

After infecting your computer, the shellcode loads a new copy of Word to display a 
decoy document that is hidden inside the malicious file.

You will notice only notice a brief flicker when the old instance of Word closes and 
the new one with the decoy opens.

Fig 2: Sample Smoaler decoy documents

The decoy documents are all unexceptional, uninfected documents with content 
that matches the filenames given to the malicious RTFs. (See Fig 2.)

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        3

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

In preparing the decoy for display, the malware overwrites the infected RTF file 
with the contents of the decoy (which is in DOC format), thus removing one useful 
piece of evidence that might otherwise help pinpoint the source of infection.
The shellcode
The executable code that kicks off infection is the same as was used in PlugX, 
being byte-for byte identical (see Fig 3) to the shellcode from  PlugX 

  [A].

 

 6.0 

Fig 444: The PlugX 6.0 and Smoaler shellcodes are identical

Fig 3: The PlugX 6.0 and Smoaler shellcodes are identical 

￼This shellcode is unusual for its use of LZNT1 compression for the embedded 
executable payload. This technique has not been observed in any other APT 
(Advanced Persistent Threat) attacks.
The shellcode decompresses an embedded PE file, writes it into the %TEMP% folder 
with the name DW20.DLL (this mimics the filename used by the Dr. Watson utility 
on Windows that pops up when a program crashes), and runs it.
First-stage dropper

Filename   DW20.DLL
Sophos detections   Troj/Plugx-I
 Troj/Plugx-K

The first-stage payload created by the shellcode contains another program file 
embedded as data.

It locates this in its own executable file, drops it to disk (which is where the name 
dropper comes from for this sort of malware component), and runs it.

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        4

￼
￼
￼
￼
￼
￼
PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

There are two main sorts of dropper, detected by Sophos as Troj/Plugx-I and 
Troj/Plugx-K. (See Fig 4.) The names reflect the similarity, thus far, to earlier PlugX 
malware.

Fig 4: Side-by-side pseudocode for Smoaler first-stage dropper variants

But what happens next is quite different from a PlugX attack, which is why this 
malware has been given the general name Smoaler, rather than PlugX.
The intermediate infector

Filename   Random temporary name (deleted after use)

Sophos detection   Mal/Smoaler-A

The temporary file dropped by DW20.DLL contains a compressed DLL (dynamic link 
library: a special sort of program file) stored in its resources. This compressed 
program is unpacked using code built on the stack.

This component decodes the Command-and-Control (C&C) server names that the 
final malware will use, and saves them to the registry entry HKCU\Software\
Microsoft\Windows Media\XC. (See Fig 5.)
C&C servers are the computers to which infected computers, often called bots or 
zombies, connect in order to fetch instructions on what to do next. Putting the C&C 
server names in the registry, rather than in the zombie executable itself, means 
that if the user becomes suspicious and submits the malware file to a security 
vendor, the locations of the C&C servers will not be revealed.

The data in the registry entry is obscured by flipping the least significant bit of the 
non-zero bytes (i.e. XORing them with 0x01). This provides a light disguise against 
an inquisitive user.

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        5

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

Fig 5: Smoaler registry entry used to store C&C server names

After storing the C&C names in the registry, the intermediate infector loads the 
dropped DLL using the LoadLibrary() Windows API call. 
The intermediate infector is deleted from the system after execution.
Main malware component 

Filename   Randomly-generated name

Sophos detection   Troj/Smoaler-A

The DLL dropped by the intermediate infector is the principal component of 
Smoaler.

The DLLs created during infection are variable in size, and huge, ranging from 20 
MBytes to 50 MBytes. 

This is not because they are complex and packed with functionality: the useful 
content of Smoaler is less than 40 KBytes. The bulk of each DLL consists of a 
number (two to six) binary resources of 5 MBytes to 10 MBytes each. These 
resources are filled with zero bytes, entirely for the purpose of bulking up the file.

We assume that the purpose of deliberately bloating the main DLL is to disguise its 
original source, since even a suspicious user might not connect a multi-megabyte 
DLL with the original infectious RTF of a few hundred kilobytes. (The original RTF is 
also replaced with the decoy DOC file after infection, further diverting attention 
from the origin of the malware.)

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        6

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

When the DLL first runs, it installs itself permanently into two places on the 
victim's computer:

• C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Microsoft\

Windows\Burn\%COMPUTERNAME%.dll

(%COMPUTERNAME% is generated by querying the name of the computer.)

• C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Microsoft\

Windows\LiveUpdata_Mem\%RANDOM%.dll

(The %RANDOM% part of the name is variable, e.g. B6go3s_One.dll or 7n5HjV.dll.)
Two or three copies of the DLL are dropped. They typically differ in size, because 
the zero-byte resource padding may vary in each file.
The DLL is added as a registry value called %COMPUTERNAME% in the registry key 
HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\run. 
This provides what is known as persistence, meaning that the malware is 
automatically re-loaded every time the victim reboots or logs on. (See Fig 6.)

Fig 6: Smoaler registry persistence on a computer named XP3

Note that Smoaler is launched using the Windows utility rundll32.exe, because 
DLLs cannot execute on their own. They require a host program inside which to 
run.

When connecting to its C&C servers, Smoaler injects itself into the process 
IEXPLORE.EXE. This is a common trick used by malware to make its traffic appear 
to originate from a browser, thus arousing much less suspicion.
While running, however, Smoaler keeps a lookout for processes called vsserv.exe,
fsdfwd.exe, AvastSvc.exe, uiWatchDog.exe, and avp.exe. It avoids injecting 
itself into Internet Explorer if any of them are active.

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        7

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

These processes belong to various security products, so this is a malware 
precaution often jocularly called anti-anti-virus, intended to avoid suspicious 
activity that might attract the attention of security software.

After installing itself, Smoaler attempts to connect to its C&C servers. The domain 
names it uses are already known from earlier Tibet-related malware attacks: 
dtl.dnsd.me, dtl.eauto.com and dtl6.moo.com.
What happens next? 
Unfortunately, we can't say precisely how an infected computer will behave if 
Smoaler gets this far.

That is because the content that the primary Smoaler DLL fetches from its C&C 
servers is whatever malware the attackers choose to serve up next.

Worse still, the programs downloaded by Smoaler are not in regular EXE or DLL 
format. 

Firstly, the downloads are encrypted; secondly, their headers are stripped off so 
that, even decrypted, they are not immediately obvious as programs; thirdly, they 
are loaded directly into, and run directly from, memory, rather then being written 
to disk and launched via the Windows API.

That means that if you kill off the Smoaler process and delete its primary 
executable, as you will almost certainly want to do if you find out that you are 
infected, you may no longer have a complete copy of the malware to submit for 
analysis.

In this way, the Smoaler authors avoid showing all the cards in their hand at once, 
in the hope of staying one step ahead.

However, this multi-stage approach also has a significant disadvantage for 
cybercriminals: there are now multiple points in the attack at which you can spot 
an anomaly, intervene, and win.
Prevention is better than cure
Malware like Smoaler is a strong reminder of why proactivity and prevention are 
better than cure: once you are infected, it can be hard to go back and unravel 
what happened, because of the tricks that the malware uses along the way.

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        8

PlugX revisited: introducing “Smoaler”                                                                          Gabor Szappanos, SophosLabs

References 
[A] http://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/inside-the-plugx-malware

[B] http://www.cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2012-0158
For further security information
http://www.sophos.com/why-sophos/our-people/technical-papers.aspx

http://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/

http://podcasts.sophos.com/

© 2013 Sophos Ltd. All rights reserved. Visit www.sophos.com/legal for more information.                                        9

