 

 

“Winnti” 

More than just a game 

 
April 2013 
Kaspersky Lab Global Research and Analysis Team 

Contents 
 

Executive Summary ............................................................................................... 2 

Winnti 1.0 Technical Analysis ............................................................................... 10 

Real Case Investigation (Winnti 2.0) .................................................................... 26 

Source of Attacks ................................................................................................. 51 

The Search for Attackers  (XYZ incident) .............................................................. 53 

Conclusions .......................................................................................................... 80 

Appendix .............................................................................................................. 81 

 

 
PAGE 1| “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

Executive Summary 

 
This research, which started  in autumn of 2011 by Kaspersky Lab, is still ongoing.  The subject of this research 
project is a series of targeted attacks against private companies around the world. 

In the research, we reveal activity of one of the hacking groups which has Chinese origins. This group was named 
"Winnti". 

According to our estimates, the Winnti group has been active for several years and specializes in cyber-attacks 
against the online video game industry. The main objective of the group is to steal source code of online game 
projects as well as digital certificates of legitimate software vendors.  Besides that, they are deeply interested in 
the set-up of network infrastructure (including production gaming servers) and new developments such as 
conceptual ideas, design and more. 

We aren’t the first to investigate the attacks attributed to the Winnti group.. It is known that, at least in 2010, the 
U.S.- based company HBGary investigated information security incidents related to the Winnti group at one of 
HBGary's customers –  an American video game production company. 

 

In the beginning … 
In the autumn of 2011, a Trojan was detected on a large number of computers – all of them linked by the fact that 
they were used by players of a popular online game. It emerged that the piece of malware landed on users’ 
computers as part of a regular update from the game’s official update server. Some even suspected that the 
publisher itself was spying on its customers. However, it later became clear that the malicious program ended up 
on the users’ computers by mistake: the cybercriminals were in fact targeting the companies that develop and 
release computer games. 

The computer game publisher whose servers spread the Trojan asked Kaspersky Lab to analyze the malicious 
program that was found on its update server. It turned out to be a DLL library compiled for a 64-bit Windows 
environment and even used a properly signed malicious driver. 

The malicious DLL infected gamers’ computers running under either 32-bit or 64-bit operating systems. It could not 
start in 32-bit environments, but it could, under certain conditions, launch without the user’s knowledge or 
consent in 64-bit environments, though no such accidental launches have been detected. 

The DLL contained a backdoor payload, or, to be exact, the functionality of a fully-fledged Remote Administration 
Tool (RAT), which gave the cyber-criminals the ability to control the victim computer without the user’s knowledge. 

The malicious module turned out to be the first Trojan  for the 64-bit version of Microsoft Windows with valid 
digital signature that we have seen. We used to see similar cases before, but in all previous incidents we have seen 
digital signature abuse, there were only 32-bit applications. 

At an early stage of our research, we identified a number of similar backdoors, both 32-bit and 64-bit, in our 
collection of malware samples. Thesewere detected under various verdicts. We grouped them together into a 
separate family. Symantec appears to be the first to name these malicious programs; we kept Symantec’s name – 

 
PAGE 2|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Winnti – in the name of the malware family we created: Backdoor.Win32(Win64).Winnti. As for the people behind 
these attacks involving this remote administration tool, we ended up calling them “the Winnti group”. 

Interestingly, the digital signature belonged to another video game vendor - a private company known as KOG, 
based in South Korea. The main business of this company was MMRPG (massively multi player online role-playing 
games) games, which was identical to the business area of the first victim. 

We contacted KOG, whose certificate was used to sign malicious software and notified Verisign, which issued the 
certificate for KOG. As a result, the certificate was revoked. 

 

 

Digital Certificates 
 
When we discovered the first stolen digital certificate, we didn't realize that stealing the certificates and signing 
malware for   upcoming attacks against other victims was the modus operandi of that group. In eighteen months, 
we manage to discover more than a dozen   compromised digital certificates. 

Moreover, we found that those digital certificates seemed to have been used in attacks organized by other hacking 
groups, presumably coming from China. 

For example, an attack against South Korean social networks Cyworld and Nate in 2011 
(http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-14323787) - the attackers used a Trojan that was digitally signed using 
the certificate of YNK Japan Inc gaming company.) 

A digital certificate of the same company was used recently (March 2013) in Trojans targeting Tibetan and Uyghur 
activists 
(https://www.securelist.com/en/blog/208194165/New_Uyghur_and_Tibetan_Themed_Attacks_Using_PDF_Exploi
ts).  
In fact, this story has long roots dating back to 2011. We highly recommend reading this Norman blog post of a 
similar incident here: http://blogs.norman.com/2011/security-research/invisible-ynk-a-code-signing-conundrum. 

 
PAGE 3|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

At the same time, in March 2013, Uyghur activists were targeted by another malware which was digitally signed by 
another gaming company called MGAME Corp according to  http://www.f-
secure.com/weblog/archives/00002524.html 

 We believe that the source of all these stolen certificates is same group which we call Winnti. This group either has 
close contacts with other Chinese hacker groups or sells the certificates on the black market in China. 

Below is the list of known compromised companies and digital certificates used by the Winnti group in different 
campaigns: 

Company 

Serial number 

Country 

ESTsoft Corp 

Kog Co., Ltd. 

30 d3 fe 26 59 1d 8e ac 8c 30 66 7a c4 99 9b d7 

South Korea 

66 e3 f0 b4 45 9f 15 ac 7f 2a 2b 44 99 0d d7 09 

South Korea 

LivePlex Corp 

1c aa 0d 0d ad f3 2a 24 04 a7 51 95 ae 47 82 0a 

South Korea/ 
Philippines 

MGAME Corp 

4e eb 08 05 55 f1 ab f7 09 bb a9 ca e3 2f 13 cd 

South Korea 

Rosso Index KK 

01 00 00 00 00 01 29 7d ba 69 dd 

Japan 

61 3e 2f a1 4e 32 3c 69 ee 3e 72 0c 27 af e4 ce 

South Korea 

61 00 39 d6 34 9e e5 31 e4 ca a3 a6 5d 10 0c 7d 

Japan/South Korea/US 

Sesisoft 

Wemade 

YNK Japan 

67 24 34 0d db c7 25 2f 7f b7 14 b8 12 a5 c0 4d 

Guangzhou YuanLuo 

0b 72 79 06 8b eb 15 ff e8 06 0d 2c 56 15 3c 35 

Fantasy Technology Corp 

75 82 f3 34 85 aa 26 4d e0 3b 2b df 74 e0 bf 32 

Japan 

China 

China 

Neowiz 

 

5c 2f 97 a3 1a bc 32 b0 8c ac 01 00 59 8f 32 f6 

South Korea 

Victims 
 
It’s tempting to assume that Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) primarily target high-level institutions: 
government agencies, ministries, military and political organizations, power stations, chemical plants, critical 
infrastructure networks, and so on. In this context, it seems unlikely that a commercial company would be at risk 
unless it was operating on the scale of Google, Adobe or The New York Times, which was recently targeted by a 
cyber-attack, and this perception is reinforced by the publicity that attacks on corporations and government 
organizations usually receive. However, any company with data that can be effectively monetized is at risk from 
APTs. This is exactly what we encountered here: it was not a governmental, political, military, or industrial 
organization.  The target was specifically  gaming companies. 

Analyzing the Winnti samples helped to identify who and what were the targets. We found that we were dealing 
with targeted attacks: the Winnti team infects companies that develop and release computer games. It appears the 
team has been active for quite a while – since 2009. 

 
PAGE 4|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

It’s difficult to name all the victims of the Winnti team. Judging by the information that we have at our disposal – 
namely the tags within malicious programs, the names of the C&C domains, the companies whose digital 
certificates were stolen to sign malware, and the countries where detection notifications came from – we can say 
that at least 35 companies were infected by the Winnti malware at some time. 

Countries where the affected companies are located: 

Asia 

Europe 

South America 

North America 

Belarus 
Germany  
Russia 
 

Brazil  
Peru 

USA 

China 
India 
Indonesia 
Japan 
Philippines 
S. Korea  
Taiwan 
Thailand 
Vietnam 

 

This data demonstrates that the Winnti team targets gaming companies located in various parts of the world, 
albeit with a strong focus on South East Asia.  

Countries where gaming companies have been affected 

 

This geographic diversity is hardly surprising. Often, gaming companies (both publishers and developers) are 
international, having representatives and offices worldwide. Also, it is common practice for gaming companies 
from various regions to cooperate. The developers of a game may be located in a different country from its 
publisher. When a game eventually reaches markets in regions away from its initial ‘home’, it is often localized and 
released by other publishers. In the course of this cooperation, the partner companies often grant each other 
access to network resources to exchange data associated with the gaming content, including distribution kits, 

 
PAGE 5|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

gaming resources, resource assembly kits, etc. If one company in the network gets infected, it’s easy for the 
cybercriminals to spread the infection throughout the partnership chain. 
 

Winnti C&C Structure 
 
During the investigation, we identified more than a hundred malicious programs, each individually compiled to 
attack a particular company. Typically, separate command-and-control (C&C) domains were assigned to each 
targeted company. Virtually all the C&C domains were arranged as follows: a second-level domain was created 
without a DNS A-record, i.e., there was no IP address assigned to it.  

In cases where there was an A-record, the assigned IP address was typically 127.0.0.1. It is also noteworthy that 
some of the second-level domains that the cybercriminals created for their C&C had very similar names to the 
domain hosting the site of a certain real gaming company. And the malicious users’ domain was resolved to the 
same IP address which the site of the real gaming company used. In any case, the third-level domains resolved to IP 
addresses assigned to the attackers’ actual C&C servers. 

C&C domain naming and resolution 

 

Sometimes the Winnti team registered their C&C units with public hosts. Judging by the samples identified, these 
C&C centers were subdomains of such domains as 6600.org, 8866.org, 9966.org or ddns.net. 

From the names of the C&C domains or subdomains, the attack targets or countries of residence could be guessed, 
as in:  

ru.gcgame.info  
kr.zzsoft.info 
jp.xxoo.co 
us.nhntech.com 
fs.nhntech.com 
as.cjinternet.us 

The subdomains “ru”, “kr”, ”jp” and “us” most probably mean that these C&C servers manage bots hosted on the 
computers of companies located in Russia, South Korea, Japan and the U.S. respectively, while “fs” and “as” are 
acronyms for the names of the companies being attacked. 

 
PAGE 6|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Sometimes Winnti’s malicious programs had a local IP address, such as 192.168.1.136, specified in the settings for 
the C&C. This could mean that, at some point in time, there was an infected computer that did not have a 
connection to the Internet, but the cybercriminals needed control over it (it may have been infected while malware 
was spread via a corporate network). In this case, the cybercriminals deployed a dedicated local C&C server on 
another compromised computer within the same local network which did have an Internet connection; via that 
C&C, the first victim computer could be controlled. System administrators often try to isolate critical computers 
from the outside world. This decreases the probability of haphazard infection, but, apparently, does not always 
help in a targeted attack.  

In the Winnti samples that were detected and analyzed, we found 36 unique C&C domains. Most probably, this is 
only a small portion of all existing Winnti C&C domains, as we only managed to obtain some of the samples from 
this malware family. This is hardly surprising since these malicious programs are used to execute targeted attacks, 
so no information is available about many instances of infection; for this reason, we have no way of obtaining 
samples of the malware used in these undisclosed attacks.  

Domain names used in the attacks we discovered 

newpic.dyndns.tv 
update.ddns.net 
nd.jcrsoft.com 
cc.nexoncorp.us 
kr.zzsoft.info 
as.cjinternet.us 
ca.zzsoft.info 
sn.jcrsoft.com 
lp.apanku.com 
sshd.8866.org 
ftpd.6600.org 
tcpiah.googleclick.net 
rss.6600.org 
lp.zzsoft.info 
lp.gasoft.us 
eya.jcrsoft.com 
ftpd.9966.org 
kr.xxoo.co 
wi.gcgame.info 
tcp.nhntech.com 
ka.jcrsoft.com 
my.zzsoft.info 
jp.jcrsoft.com 
su.cjinternet.us 
vn.gcgame.info 
ap.nhntech.com 
ru.gcgame.info 
kr.jcrsoft.com 
wm.ibm-support.net 
fs.nhntech.com 
docs.nhnclass.com 
rh.jcrsoft.com 
wm.nhntech.com 

 
PAGE 7|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

wm.myxxoo.com 
ka.zzsoft.info 
ad.jcrsoft.com 
my.gasoft.us 

 

Knowing the 2nd level domains used by Winnti, we brute forced through all third level sub-domains up to 4 symbols 
long, and identified those that have the IP addresses of real servers assigned to them. Having searched through 
subdomains for a total of 12 second level domains, we identified 227 “live” third level domains. Many of them are 
C&C servers for Winnti-class malware that have hitherto remained unidentified. 

Analyzing the WHOIS data for the 12 second level domains, we found the following list of email addresses used for 
registration: 

evilsex@gmail.com 
jslee.jcr@gmail.com 
whoismydns@gmail.com 
googl3@live.com 
wzcc@cnkker.com 
apanku2009@gmail.com 
 
For some of these domains, registration data proved to be the same as those for the domain google.com:  
 
Registrant:  Google Inc. 
                     1600 Amphitheatre Parkway 
                     Mountain View, California 94043 
                     United States 
                    +1.6503300100 

Judging by the domain registration data, the Winnti team started their criminal activities as far back as 2007. The  
early domains were involved in spreading rogue anti-virus programs (FakeAV). From 2009 onwards, domains began 
to emerge hosting C&C servers for bots used to infect gaming companies. Apparently, the cybercriminals 
graduated to relatively large-scale penetrations into the corporate networks of gaming companies starting from 
2010. 

Known Malware 
 
The favorite tool of the attackers is a malicious program we call "Winnti". It has evolved since the first use, but we 
divide all variants into two generations: 1.x and 2.x. Our publication describes both variants of this tool. The second 
generation (2.x) was used in one of the attacks that we investigated in the active stage and helped the victim to 
interrupt data transfer and isolate infections in a corporate network.   

In addition to that, we  observed usage of a popular backdoor known as PlugX, which is believed to have Chinese 
origins, however used only previously in attacks against Tibetan activists. 

 

 
PAGE 8|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The Commercial Interest  
 
As has been stated above, APTs can target any commercial company if cyber-criminals find a way to financially 
profit from the attack. 

So what methods do cyber-criminals use to generate illicit earnings from attacks on gaming companies?  

Based on the available information, we have singled out three main monetization schemes that could be used by 
the Winnti team.  

  The unfair accumulation of in-game currency/“gold” in online games and the conversion of virtual funds 

into real money. 

  Theft of source code from the online games server to search for vulnerabilities in games – often linked to 

point 1. 

  Theft of source code from the server part of popular online games to further deploy pirate servers. 

Let’s look at an example. During our investigation of an infection at a computer gaming company, we found that 
malware had been created for a particular service on the company’s server. The malicious program was looking for 
a specific process running on the server, injected code into it, and then sought out two places in the process code 
where it could conceal call commands for its function interceptors. Using these function interceptors, the malicious 
programs modified process data  which was  processed in those two places,  and returned control back. Thus, the 
attackers change the normal execution of the server processes. Unfortunately, the company was not able to share 
its  targeted  application  with  us,  and  we  cannot  say  exactly  how  this  malicious  interference  affected  gaming 
processes. The company concerned told us that the attackers’ aim was to acquire gaming “gold” illegally.  

Malicious activity like this has an adverse impact on the game itself, tilting the balance in favor of cheats. But any 
changes  the  Winnti  team  introduces  into  the  game  experience  are  unlikely  to  be  very  noticeable.  After  all, 
maintaining a skillful balance is the main attribute of online games. Users will simply stop playing if they feel that 
other  players  are  using  non-standard  methods  to  create  an  advantage  beyond  normal  gameplay  or  if  the  game 
loses  its  intrinsic  competitiveness  due  to  resources  or  artifacts  appearing  in  the  game  without  the  developers’ 
knowledge. At the same time, the attackers are keen for the game to remain popular; otherwise, they would be 
unable to effectively turn all the time and effort of infecting a gaming company into financial gain.   

Members of the Winnti team are patient and cautious. Cyber-criminals have affected the processes of the online 
games from the infected companies and stolen money from them for years, but they have found ways of doing this 
without attracting attention to themselves. 
 

 
PAGE 9|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Winnti 1.0 Technical Analysis 

 
The Initial DLL 
Everything starts with a DLL. The DLL mimics one of the standard Windows libraries, winmm.dll or apphelp.dll. 
Since, in the vast majority of cases the samples that we detected disguised themselves as winmm.dll, we would like 
to fix this name for this malicious library at the end of this document. 

Legitimate winmm.dll is a Windows system library that provides multimedia functions. It is located in 
the %WINDIR%\System32 folder. The attackers counted on this being a library providing basic system functions 
and hence the probability of it being loaded by some program is very high (this is also valid for apphelp.dll). For 
example, winmm.dll is loaded by explorer.exe, which is launched during operating system startup and is essential 
for Windows user interface.  

The mechanism to start the malware is simple: if some benign application depends on Windows winmm.dll 
(located in %WINDIR%\System32\winmm.dll) but the evil twin library with the same name (winmm.dll) is located 
in the folder of benign application, the malicious library will be loaded instead of the system one. 

Taking advantage of their control of an infected computer, the attackers place a malicious library in the %WINDIR% 
folder. The same folder also contains explorer.exe. This enables the attackers to ensure that the malicious DLL is 
loaded at system startup: explorer.exe loads the malicious winmm.dll from the %WINDIR% folder as soon as it 
launches during system startup. 

But how can a program which depends on the original library work correctly if a malicious winmm.dll is loaded 
instead of the original library? Very easy: the malicious library is designed to work as a proxy for the original 
winmm.dll from the %WINDIR%\System32 folder.  

The cyber-criminals did not reinvent the wheel to make sure that everything works properly. They relied on a tool 
known as AheadLib, which was developed by security researchers to analyze malware. 

 
PAGE 10|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

This program, which is designed to facilitate the analysis of malicious libraries, was created by a Chinese developer 
employed by an Asian anti-virus vendor. The program accepts a DLL on input and produces a C code which hooks 
the functions included in the library. The C code is compiled back into a DLL, which can then be used as a proxy and 
provide flexible way to analyze behavior of malicious file. 

 

 

 
PAGE 11|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Hook functions (code generated by the legitimate program AheadLib) 

 

The flexibility of this tool allows to customize the logics of malicious application during analysis and overload 
functions code to provide some debugging output. Some code can be added to display parameters of the hooked 
functions in order to find out which values are passed to the original functions when they are called. This method is 
used in so called dynamic analysis of malicious applications.  

 
PAGE 12|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Determining the addresses of the real functions  

(error message in the frame: “Function %hs cannot be found,  

the program will not operate correctly”) 

 

 
PAGE 13|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

(error message in the frame: “%s cannot be loaded, the program will not operate correctly”) 

Modified module loading the original DLL 

 

Ironically, the malware authors have found this to be a convenient application for creating malicious proxy-
libraries. They specified a system library (winmm.dll) as a parameter for AheadsLib tool and produced a source 
code template to create a proxy DLL – in the form of C file. By overloading some functions with the malicious 
payload, the attackers created a complete piece of malware that included all the features of the system DLL.  

Strangely, the attackers kept the code for AheadLib debug messages in the early versions of their malware (marked 
with red in the screenshots above). These strings can also be found in compiled malicious binaries: 

The function %hs cannot be found, the program will not operate correctly 

 

 
PAGE 14|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

%s cannot be loaded, the program will not operate correctly 

Later, these fragments were removed from the C file generated by AheadLib. 

Control DLL 
The winmm.dll malicious library maintains another library in its body, which is decrypted and loaded into the 
process memory without creating any files on local disk. According to file version info the original name of this 
library is "PlusDLL.dll". This is the platform’s main control component. When the additional DLL has been properly 
allocated in the memory, winmm.dll passes control to it with a parameter – a string which contains bot settings. 
The settings string, in encrypted form, is also located in the winmm.dll body – after the magic word "PLUSUNIT". 

 

Encrypted bot settings 

After decryption, the string contains the following: 

url=lp.gasoft.us:80|ver=1018|tag=33|group=lp80wi 

Apparently, when the Winnti malware managed to get into focus of security researchers: the authors made 
modifications of the methods used to store these initial settings. In some samples, the settings were hidden even 
in the executable file’s header:  

 
PAGE 15|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Encrypted settings in the header of malicious executable 

 

In other variants, the ‘PLUSUNIT’ magic string was modified: 

 

UUUSUN”” instead of PLUSUNIT 

The PlusDLL library has an embedded driver. The driver is stored in %WINDIR%\System32\<drivername.sys> file, 
registered as a service and started by NtLoadDriver system API function. Immediately after that, the driver’s file is 
removed, as well as all the registry entries created during service registration. The executable preserved the 
original driver names which are "PortLess" and "PointFilter"; however, the driver files used during infection are 
saved   as "sp1itter.sys" and "acplec.sys".  

The purpose of the driver is to hide network connections established by the malware. For example, if the user 
decides to check a list of established connections (e.g., using the ‘netstat –a’ command or the tcpview program) 
while the bot is communicating to the control center, the driver will protect and hide the malware connections. 
This approach is used by many rootkits on the Windows platform. 

The driver uses an interesting method to get the list of addresses to protect connections with. This information is 
available in the PlusDLL control library, which normally operates in the context of the explorer.exe process when 
the infection is active on the computer. The address information is sent from the user space (from PlusDLL) to the 
kernel space, where the driver works, via call to NtSetQuotaInformationFile API function. 

 

 

 
PAGE 16|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

During initialization, the driver hooks the NtSetQuotaInformationFile function: 

Hook on NtSetQuotaInformationFile function  

 

Every time the function is called, the driver checks its parameters: to be precise it is HANDLE FileHandle and PVOID 
Buffer parameters.  

The FileHandle parameter holds a descriptor of the partition on the hard drive where the function is expected to 
set disk quotas.  

The Buffer parameter is a memory buffer with information of new quotas to be set. The driver checks whether the 
value of the FileHandle parameter is equal to minus two. When the system calls the NtSetQuotaInformationFile 
function to actually change the quotas, the descriptor must be associated with one of the disks. Normally such 
descriptors in the Windows system are positive integers which obviously means that it cannot be equal to minus 
two. The negative value is set by the PlusDLL library in order to make the driver detect that the 
NtSetQuotaInformationFile function was called by that library. When calling NtSetQuotaInformationFile, PlusDLL 
sends information about the network addresses to be protected by the driver via the Buffer parameter. If 
FileHandle is not equal to minus two, the hook function in the driver passes control to system's original code of 
NtSetQuoataInformationFile API function and everyhin works as it should be on an uninfected system.  

 
PAGE 17|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Sending data from the PlusDLL.dll library to the sp1itter.sys driver 

 

Note that 64-bit versions of Windows do not allow unsigned drivers to run. The malicious driver’s 64-bit versions 
were signed using stolen certificates. During the time that we have been tracking the Winnti group, we found 11 
certificates that were used to sign the malware used by the group (not necessarily drivers only). Ten of them 
belong to various companies in the gaming industry.  

Launching the main function 
As mentioned above, the PlusDLL library is a control module. Let’s look at how the cybercriminals implemented the 
transition to perform the malicious DLL’s main tasks. They could have simply called an appropriate function directly 
or created a separate thread in which to execute it, but for some reason they resorted to a trick: the code of the 
SetWindowStationUser function in the user32.dll library was modified. After modification, the function’s first 
command became jmp <addr>, where <addr> is the address of the function in the PlusDLL library which 
implements the malicious library’s main features.  

 
PAGE 18|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Hook on SetWindowStationUser 

 

Immediately after this modification, a thread is created (CreateThread) executing code starting from the 
SetWindowStationUser function address. As a result, when control is eventually passed to this function, the 
inserted command jmp <addr> returns control back to the PlusDLL code. 

 
PAGE 19|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Malicious DLL launching its own code by creating a thread that supposedly calls SetWindowStationUser 

 

The same method is used to execute two more functions in the PlusDLL library. One of them is used to initialize 
network routines; the other executes procedures terminating the malicious program at the very end. The only 
difference is that instead of SetWindowStationUser, the code of two other functions from user32.dll is modified – 
EndTask and WinHelpW, respectively. 

It is likely that this was done in order to hide the real addresses of functions in PlusDLL in case its code was 
analyzed based on its execution logs using an automatic system (sandbox) that looks at all function calls. If this trick 
is used, an execution log would only show threads launched from the addresses of the functions 
SetWindowStationUser, EndTask and WinHelpW, which could potentially confuse researchers. 

Another possibility is that this is an anti-emulation feature. Perhaps the emulators built into some anti-virus 
products are unable to cope with these ‘leaps’ – in this case, emulation will not result in the execution of malicious 
functions, which also suits the cybercriminals’ purposes. 

Target Functionality 
So what does PlusDLL control? It turns out that the target functionality is implemented in different files. Each file 
provides a specific remote control feature and is downloaded from the attackers’ server every time the system 
starts up. These files are not saved on disk or in the registry but are loaded directly into the memory. 

At the very start of the operation, after launching the driver, PlusDLL collects information about the infected 
system. A unique identifier for the infected computer is generated based on information about the hard drive and 
the network adapter’s MAC address, e.g., TKVFP-XZTTL-KXFWH-RBJLF-FXWJR. The attackers are interested 
primarily in the computer’s name, the program which loaded the malicious library, as well as information about 

 
PAGE 20|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

remote desktop sessions (session name, client name, user name and session time). All of this data is collected in a 
buffer, which is then compressed and sent to the attackers’ control center. The buffer may look like this: 

The bot sends information about an infected system to the control center 

 

In reply to this initial message from the bot, the control center sends the list of available plugins. Plugins are DLL 
libraries that provide specific remote control functions. Upon receiving the list of plugins, the bot downloads them, 
allocates them in the memory and passes control to these libraries. 

Different C2 servers could push different plugins. In total we have discovered eight functional libraries: 

Plugin Name 

Plugin Purpose 

CmdPlus 

Provide access to the system command line. 

ListFileManager 

Provide access to the file system: list directory contents, manipulate files. 

ListProc 

ListService 

PortMap 

List or kill running processes. 

List system services. 

Redirect traffic using port forwarding. 

RemoteDesktop 

Enable Remote Desktop service on the infected machine. 

Socks5Client 

Library for transferring data over the network using a SOCKS5 proxy server.  

TransPlus 

Enables the attacker to transfer files: receive files from the infected machine, 
download/create/save files, as well as execute programs on the infected 
computer. 

 
These plugins form the core toolkit which is used by the perpetrators during attack. 

 
PAGE 21|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Operation of the malicious platform 
 

Operation flowchart at the initial stage 

 

As you can see, the cybercriminals use an entire inventory of malicious tools to effectively control the remote 
computer. Moreover, they have taken measures to conceal their activities: the plugins do not explicitly appear 
anywhere except in the computer’s memory; they do not get saved to the hard drive; the driver is deleted 
immediately after launch; all traces in the registry that could indicate this launch get deleted. Only the initial DLL 
remains on the disk that kick starts the entire process and contains an encrypted version of PlusDLL which is the 
control DLL. 

One of the weak points in this architecture is that the driver does get saved to the hard drive before it launches, so 
anti-virus products can detect the emergence of this file. The situation is further exacerbated by the fact that the 
malicious drivers may be signed (although not all drivers in the Winnti samples that we detected were in fact 
signed). An unsigned driver in itself does not have the means to counter antivirus products and its code can be 
easily recognized as malicious, whereas signed drivers stand a better chance of remaining undetected by antivirus 
products: certain anti-virus products consider properly signed programs legitimate by default, so as to minimize 
the chances of false positive responses.  

 

 

 
PAGE 22|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Kaspersky Lab’s products detect the malicious programs described above under the following verdicts: 

The initial DLLs winmm.dll and apphelp.dll, the PlusDll.dll control DLLs, and functional loadable modules 
(CmdPlus.dll etc.) are detected as Backdoor.Win32.Winnti or Backdoor.Win64.Winnti. 

The drivers sp1itter.sys and acplec.sys are detected as Rootkit.Win32.Winnti or Rootkit.Win64.Winnti. 
 

Communication with the C&C Server 
 
The data transmitted during the communication between the bot and the C&C server, naturally, do not manifest 
themselves in any explicit form in online data traffic. Since an active remote control practice can generate 
substantial traffic, cybercriminals compress communication data with the algorithm LZMA, though they do not 
include the appropriate header inherent to this algorithm. 

The data is transmitted over the TCP protocol. The samples that we analyzed established connections between 
C&C servers and ports 53, 80 and 443. This port selection is not surprising: they are associated with the protocols 
DNS, HTTP and HTTPS respectively. All three are routinely used in everyday operations, so they are enabled under 
most firewall policies. Besides, large amounts of data typically pass through these ports (with the possible 
exception of port 53), which makes it easier for the malicious traffic to remain inconspicuous.  

Although the ports are associated with certain protocols, the actual content of the traffic generated by the 
malicious program does not correspond to them. Early versions of the Winnti platform exhibited the following 
traffic structure when communicating with C&C: each block of transmitted data started with the magic number 
0xdeadface, followed by the number of blocks (in a DWORD), then the hash of the transmitted block (8 bytes), the 
size of compressed data (DWORD), the size of source data (DWORD) and, finally, the actual compressed data. 

The unit structure of a data block transmitted online in early versions of Winnti 

 

This is where another weak point of the Winnti family of backdoors becomes apparent. With this data structure, 
malicious network traffic could easily be spotted by, for example, the magic number 0xdeadface. The 
cybercriminals probably lost control over victim computers fairly frequently as corporate system administrators 
identified the intrusion by the unique headers in data packets with the help of IDS/IPS systems, and cleaned their 
networks. In 2011, new versions of Winnti backdoors appeared that, while still based on the same platform, 
started to use an updated protocol which included extra encryption to communicate with C&C, so the transmitted 

 
PAGE 23|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

data no longer had static marks in them. Prior to encryption, the data has the following structure (very similar to 
the earlier format): the first 4 bytes are taken by the magic number 0xaced1984, then a DWORD of data packet 
description, the next DWORD carries a zero value, 8 bytes of the hash of the transmitted block, then a DWORD 
with the size of the compressed data, a DWORD with the size of the source data and then the actual compressed 
data: 

The unit structure of a data block transmitted online in newer versions of Winnti 

 

Then the data is encrypted with regular XOR with a random DWORD size value, and in this form transmitted to the 
C&C. Knowing that the first four bytes in the source data must represent the value 0xaced1984, it is easy to restore 
the key for the XOR operation when the data were encrypted.  This is how the above data (the XOR value was 
0x002a7b2e) looked when it was intercepted in network traffic: 

Encrypted data block transmitted online, in the newer versions of Winnti 

 

Since the encryption key (the value with which the source data are encrypted with the XOR operation) is different 
each time a fragment of data is transmitted, no more static unique labels can be found in the network traffic which 
would quickly identify the transmitted data as belonging to the Winnti backdoor. Employing this fast, basic 
method, the cybercriminals have made it much harder to expose their programs’ traffic. 

 
PAGE 24|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Whichever protocol is used (with or without extra encryption), the workflow of communication between the bot 
and the C&C stays the same at the initial stage of operation: 

●  The bot sends the first data block, thus signaling itself; 

● 

In response, the C&C sends back the list of available plugins  

●  The bot starts to download plugins, sending one request at a time to download each plugin  

●  The C&C sends the requested plugin 

●  The bot sends a message that the plugin has arrived. 

We should note here that, to expedite data downloading, the creators of this platform have quite skillfully 
implemented asynchronous data transmission in their protocol. For instance, the message that the bot has 
received the first plugin may only arrive at the C&C when nearly all the plugins have been already sent to the bot.  

Having downloaded the malicious payload, the bot deploys the plugins in the memory and initializes them. Now it’s 
all set for complete remote control over the victim computer, and the bot switches to standby mode, waiting for 
the operator to connect and maintaining communication with the C&C by sending “empty” messages every 15 
seconds or so. 

Apart from supplying the plugins, no more automatic actions are performed by the C&C: all of the work to examine 
the infected computers is done manually by the attackers. 

 
PAGE 25|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Real Case Investigation (Winnti 2.0) 

 

Please note, that the following is published with approval from one of the attacked companies which preferred to 
remain anonymous. The real company name was replaced with "CompanyXYZ" or simply "XYZ". 

On 21st September 2012, a Security Officer of CompanyXYZ contacted Kaspersky Lab and reported a cyber-attack 
incident. Anomalous activity was spotted at one of the corporate servers. One of the employees noticed a 
suspicious directory on the server which was created under his account. The folder had a large archived file with 
information that was regarded as company's intellectual property. 

The anomalies were also confirmed in the network traffic by monitoring software. Several suspicious network 
connections were established from several computer systems, including network domain controllers, to IP 
addresses which were not associated with any corporate resources or any other known trusted networks. 

The suspicious connections were established on ports 443 and 53. Below is the list of reported IP addresses: 

 
 

211.60.126.164 (Seoul, South Korea) 
113.196.70.169 (Taipei Taiwan) 

The security officer at CompanyXYZ did an on-site analysis and managed to locate the process which initiated the 
suspicious connections using SysInternals Process Explorer tool. The connections were initiated by a system 
process (svchost.exe). A full process dump using Process Explorer was made and shared with Kaspersky Lab. Our 
team  immediately started searching for  malware in the provided process dump. 

A next day, one more dump of svchost.exe from another presumably infected machine was provided. 

We  also received an IP address and port that was spotted in the suspicious connections coming from infected 
machines: 188.120.246.88:80 (Russia). 

First Step Analysis 
 
Quick search through the dumped processes revealed IP addresses mentioned by the company's security officers. 

Suspected malicious IP address in svchost.exe memory of Machine #1. 

Suspected malicious IP address in svchost.exe memory of Machine #2. 

 
PAGE 26|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

 

We checked memory around location of the IP address and found no signs of executable code. The memory was 
most likely dynamically allocated on process heap and used as a temporary storage of resolved domain name. That 
is why we had to find another indicator of malicious module related to those IP addresses. 

We initiated a port scan of the suspected hosts in parallel to memory analysis. Below is the result on the time of 
scanning: 

Nmap scan report for 113.196.70.169 
Host is up (0.29s latency). 
Not shown: 997 filtered ports  
PORT     STATE  SERVICE       VERSION  
21/tcp   open   ftp           Xlight ftpd 2.0  
80/tcp   closed http  
3389/tcp open   ms-wbt-server Microsoft Terminal Service  
Service Info: OS: Windows; CPE: cpe:/o:microsoft:windows  

The server was running Windows Terminal Service or was used as a proxy linked to some Terminal Server. 
Establishing connection via RDP client usually reveals default system locale which is used on welcome screen. 
Below is what we found upon connection: 
 
 

Chinese locale on terminal server welcome screen at 113.196.70.169 

 

 

 

 
PAGE 27|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Checking one of IP addresses on robtex.com brought two possible domain names: 

Robtex shared host names for IP 113.196.70.169. 

One of these domains was found in the memory of dumped svchost process. 

Domain name related to the suspected IP address on Machine #2.

Part of executable configuration seen in svchost memory dump of Machine #1. 

 

 

 
PAGE 28|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Googlefiles.net domain was also found in svchost dump of the Machine #1. Besides  that, several other domain 
names were discovered in the same memory block: 

service.interdriver.net 
service.googlefiles.net 
service.dell-support.org 
service.hp-supports.com 

Next step was to locate the nearest PE header in the memory of svchost and extract the executable module. After 
fixing alignment of the sections the file was ready for further static analysis. 

Date and time from PE header showed that the executable was prepared about a year before current attack was 
revealed: 

 

TimeDateStamp:    "2011-10-13 07:21:50" 

The executable was a 64-bit application which means that the attackers had already known that CompanyXYZ used 
64-bit systems. 

The IP address 188.120.246.88, which was seen in suspicious connection was also checked. Connecting to the port 
80 of that address with simple TCP client displayed an HTTP GET request: 

GET /G-Content_XYZ.rar HTTP/1.1  
Accept: */*  
Cache-Control: no-cache  
Connection: Keep-Alive  
Host: 127.0.0.1:81  
Pragma: no-cache  
Range: bytes=23021988299-27335921161  
Referer: http://127.0.0.1:81  
User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.1; SV1; .NET CLR 1.1.4322; .NET CLR 2.0.50727)  

Usually the request is sent by the connecting client, but here the chat between client and server is obviously 
inversed. That is probably done by the attackers’ tunneling setup which established a TCP connection with some 
local web server within the company network and an external host that received the stolen data. According to the 
request, the attackers were downloading a file called G-Content_XYZ.rar, which seems to be an archive of over 
25Gb long. The transfer process was instantly interrupted by Security Officers of the company. 

Tactical Pattern Recognition 
The embedded configuration shows some file names. C_20100.NLS was discovered later as the file hosting the 
same malicious code on the hard drive. WinIo.sys is a driver module on Microsoft Windows Server systems used to 
process networking requests. 

Another interesting piece of data was in a short string “xyz”, which probably refers to the attack campaign name 
and was defined by the attackers, who deliberately put that name to tag the malware. The word “xyz” most likely 
stands for the campaign name which comes from the attacked company's name “CompanyXYZ”. 

That was the first evidence that we were dealing with a well-prepared targeted attack against CompanyXYZ. From 
our previous experience, we have seen several targeted attacks against gaming companies and some of them were 
also tagged after the name of the companies. In all those attacks there was a recognizable pattern of the attackers: 
they always used third-level domain names for the command and control server of the malware while second-level 

 
PAGE 29|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

domain name usually resolved to 127.0.0.1 or was a public DDNS domain. A quick check confirmed that this tactical 
pattern was present in this case as well. Since then, we believed that it is the same attackers we   already knew 
about. This group of attackers was internally labeled “Winnti” by one of our researchers, who named it after one of 
the very first discovered executable malicious modules. 

Active Attack Countermeasures 
As soon as we discovered additional configuration, secondary domain names and IP addresses that could be used 
to control the infected hosts, we instantly reported it to the CompanyXYZ’s Security Officer, who instantly adjusted 
network firewall rules to block all connections to the attackers’ hosts. 

Assisted remote system analysis of another infected machine resulted in discovery of C_20100.NLS file in the 
Windows system directory and a reference in the system registry to start malicious module as system service: 

 

 

HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\services\Nwsapagent\Parameters\ 

 ServiceDll = C:\Windows\system32\c_20100.NLS 

         

 ServiceMain = StartMain 

         

 ServiceDllUnloadOnStop = 1  

 Date of registry key creation was the first discovered time of the attack (however, we found an earlier date later): 

 

Thu Sep  6 04:26:19 2012 

Malicious service registry settings were hidden by a rootkit module, however it helped to identify an infection as 
the registry key name was the same on all the affected computers. Simple creation of a key named 
HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\services\Nwsapagent could fail if the system was infected. 

Rootkit detection method - registry key renaming fails if the key already exists. 

 

The rootkit module protected the registry key, but it didn't protect the executable module stored on the hard 
drive. It was possible to rename c_20100.NLS file, reboot the machine and clean the registry. 

Alternative and even more reliable method was to reboot into Windows Safe Mode, clean the registry key and 
delete the c_20100.NLS file. This method was used by company's System Administrators to find other modules that 
were not in c_20100.NLS. 

The Infection Vector 
Since the infection was located and cleaned, the next step was to locate the breach used by the attackers to 
penetrate the network. Security Officers of the company suggested to start checking from a distinct host they have 

 
PAGE 30|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

suspected. The host (lets call it Machine #3) belong to an employee without network administrators rights. It was 
known that it had connected to the attackers' IPs like the server systems. 
The affected company’s security officers obtained a copy of the hard drive of the suspected machine and provided 
a remote access to the disk image. Browsing through the directory structure based on the suspected and adjacent 
dates of infection (01-06 September 2012) revealed a couple of suspicious files that could have been related to the 
attack: 

C:\RECYCLER\en.exe 
Type: PE file 
Created: 2012-09-06 04:08:53 UTC 
Size: 405504 
MD5: cf119a66d4c3e2355c1ec4ac316a7130 

C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\tcprelay.sys 
Type: PE file (native) 
Created: 2012-09-05 17:27:04 UTC 
Size: 99912 
MD5: 0b105cd6ecdfe5724c7db52135aa47ef 

Preliminary analysis of tcprelay.sys proved that it was a malicious file which had another encrypted executable file 
embedded in it. This gave an even earlier suspected timestamp of infection: 

2012-09-05 17:27:04 UTC or 2012-09-05 20:27:04 (local system timezone, UTC+3) 

At the time of check there was no reference in the registry that was linked to tcprelay.sys, perhaps due the fact 
that system administrators had already cleaned the registry. This was confirmed by a file in local Administrator's 
Desktop folder: 

C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\Desktop\1.reg (created on 2012-09-24 12:44:07 UTC) 

The file had an exported registry data, which had been removed from the registry during system cleanup on 24th 
September 2012. Here is the original contents of the registry key 
(HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\tcprelay) before it was removed: 

Tcprelay.sys registry settings with original file path. 

 

Once the infection on the machine was confirmed we started looking for the origins of the malicious files. From our 
previous experience of Winnti gang tactics, we knew that they are keen on sending targeted emails with attached 
executables. Security Officers helped us check all the emails stored in local Outlook database file on suspected 
dates of infection, however that didn't reveal anything suspicious. 

We have also found system event log files which were copied and analyzed. Event logs had records of tcprelay 
service start timestamps which confirmed the discovered date of infection. User SID corresponded to the local user 
account according to the registry. 
 
PAGE 31|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Tcprelay service first start time from the Event Log 

 

 

The Machine #3 had an anti-virus program installed. Checking detection logs of the anti-virus on the suspected 
date of infection (05.09.2012) showed that there was a single detection right before tcprelay service first start. 

Part of the antivirus quarantine log. 

 

We recovered the PDF document called “Transmission with Steps, Realited and Compressed.pdf” from the anti-
virus quarantine and prepared to find an exploit inside. The PDF had a lot of obfuscated JavaScript code inside, 
however we believe that it was not related to the original infection of the system. It was clean and the anti-virus 
detected it by mistake, probably because of some suspicious obfuscated JavaScript code. 

 
PAGE 32|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

PDF document detected by the antivirus as malicious. 

 

The JavaScript code inside the PDF was used to process an interactive form inside the PDF and support dynamic 
interactive 3D model embedded in the document using Adobe 3D technology. 

After that, we checked the infected machine’s browser history. The Internet Explorer history log files showed that 
the user was reading   email right before the infection of his machine. 

Internet Explorer log history record: html file from Outlook. 

 
PAGE 33|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

With that in mind, we analyzed the Outlook local database again. This time we used several techniques to recover 
emails that were deleted from the Trash folder. This helped to partly recover a message which arrived on the day 
of infection. 

Recovered targeted attack email on Machine#3. 

 

The text of the message supposed to contain an attachment, however the attachment and MIME headers of the 
email were completely lost and couldn't be recovered. However, it was clear that the email was a targeted attack 
against the employee of the company. It was sent from companyxxyz@163.com and replaced “From” field in the 
email body which made it look like a legitimate email in the list of messages in Outlook. 

Targetted attack email in the list of Outlook messages. 

 

 
PAGE 34|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

We discovered a Windows prefetch file in the system directory, that was created when the malicious attachment 
was opened. The timestamp correlates with the time of infection. 

 

 

C:\WINDOWS\Prefetch\CompanyXYZ EMPLOYEE SALARY ADJ-1AF9D56A.pf 

Time of creation: 2012-09-05 19:52:00 (local timezone, UTC+03) 

Unfortunately, the prefetch file format is proprietary and there is nothing interesting in those files, except the 
original executable file name. Full path of the malicious executable that infected the first computer in the company 
was: 

C:\Documents and Settings\<Username>\LocalSettings\Temp\RAR$EX00.156\CompanyXYZ EMPLOYEE SALARY 
ADJUSTMENTS EBOOK.EXE 

According to the file path, this executable was a part of an archive, which was opened with WinRAR installed on 
the system. 

Upon discovery, we requested the Security Officers to provide us with full MIME   as well as to check who else may 
have received the same message. The check discovered series of emails sent to several publicly known email 
addresses. In all cases the text message was the same as shown above, however sent from different mailboxes. The 
Return-Path MIME filed seemed to have the original email addresses of the attackers: 

companyxxyz@163.com 
company.xyz@gmx.com 

The attackers used the same IP to send out emails: 118.142.11.114 

 

Hutchison Global Communications  

ITMM HGC  
IH17-AP  

inetnum: 118.140.0.0 - 118.143.255.255  
netname: HGC  
descr: 
country:  HK  
person: 
nic-hdl: 
e-mail:  hgcnetwork@hgc.com.hk  
address:  9/F Low Block ,  
address:  Hutchison Telecom Tower,  
address:  99 Cheung Fai Rd, Tsing Yi,  
address:  HONG KONG  
phone:  +852-21229555  
fax-no:  +852-21239523  

The emails we checked had the same attachment of 96782 bytes named “Salary adjustments.zip”. There was only 
one file inside ZIP archive, called “CompanyXYZ Employee Salary Adjustments Ebook.exe”. Full details about this 
application are provided further down in current report. 

To summarize, the targeted attack started from an email sent at 05.09.2012 19:12 (UTC+03). 
It resulted in system infection at 05.09.2012 19:52 (UTC+03). 

 

 

 
PAGE 35|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Full File Analysis 

Salary adjustments.zip File 
Size: 96782 
MD5:  1b56416fefa2d2c863f3b46dfb6dc353 
Location: targeted attack email message attachment 
Creation time (author's timezone): 2012-09-05 14:29:10 

This file is just a container for “CompanyXYZ Employee Salary Adjustments Ebook.exe”. 

CompanyXYZ Employee Salary Adjustments Ebook.exe File 
Size: 122880 
MD5: 6ef66c2336b2b5aaa697c2d0ab2b66e2 
Location: “Salary adjustments.zip” 
Creation time: unavailable 
Link time (UTC): 2012-07-21 18:50:18 

Internal name: FlashUpdate.EXE 

This application is a wrapper for another embedded executable modules. It serves as a dropper of malware. 

Malware dropper file structure 

 

Notable fact: this application has a resource section inside and the default locale is set to Chinese Simplified. 

The file creates three long binary data registry keys, two of which are encrypted executable modules and one 
encrypted config from the body of the original dropper. These values are encrypted with simple 1-byte XOR. 

 
PAGE 36|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Decrypted sysinfo config contents 

 

Sysinfo config module is used by sysbin01. Apparently it starts with the company name and has three domain 
names, one of which is most likely used to check Internet connectivity (update.microsoft.com). 

Sysbin01 module is a loader component. It creates several threads running various jobs. 

Sysbin01.thread#1 attempts to load %TEMP%\<ComputerName>.ax file and decrypts it.  

<ComputerName>.ax file structure 

 

We   checked the system but couldn't find <ComputerName>.ax file in the Temp folder of the user, however we   
found other .ax-files that seemed to be related because of the date of file creation. 

File name: C:\Documents and Settings\%User%\Local Settings\Temp\%ComputerName%_p.ax 
File size: 2660 
Creation time (UTC): 2012-09-06 06:22:42 
MD5: unavailable (the system went offline before we discovered the filepath). 

File name: C:\Documents and Settings\%User%\Local Settings\Temp\uid.ax 
File size: 16 
Creation time (UTC): 2012-09-06 05:03:06 
MD5: unavailable (the system went offline before we discovered the filepath). 

According to the code that loads <ComputerName>.ax it is an encrypted executable file, which is decrypted and 
loaded to memory by own loader routine in the sysbin01 module. 

Sysbin01.thread#2 spawns a new instance of Sysbin01.thread#3 every 10 seconds during, that is done 3 times. 

 

 

 
PAGE 37|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Sysbin01.thread#3  

This thread is the most important. It reads the configuration from the registry and connects to the C&C servers 
specified in the config via direct tcp connection or via proxy that is fetched from the the settings of locally logged in 
user profile. The config had the following C&C: tank.hja63.com. It sends a “POST /<HEXNUMBER>” request with 
User-Agent “lynx”, the data after HTTP header is just “AA”, expected answer is also “AA”. 

This thread also creates %TEMP%\uid.ax and stores current system unique ID, which is generated by CoCreateGuid 
system API (16 bytes). It is able to receive and save data from the C&C server to a file. It also monitors windows of 
explorer.exe and copies textual data from password fields if the user types in, stolen data is saved to a file first. 

After all threads are launched, the main thread waits for termination of Sysbin01.thread#3, which is created first 
and then exits. 

sysbin02 module behaviors depends on currently running processes. There is an embedded DLL file according to 
Figure 15 in sysbin02.  

If the system has a running process named “360tray.exe”, then the embedded file is stored 
in %SYSTEM%\MFC42LOC.DLL, then copies the source executable (FlashUpdate.exe) to %TEMP%\Flash.tmp and 
runs a new process from that location via WMI Win32_Process.Create method. 

If the system has a running process named “bdagent.exe”, then it copies the source executable (FlashUpdate.exe) 
to %TEMP%\Flash.tmp, decodes an embedded Base64 string and executes. The string has the following text after 
decoding: 

reg add "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" /v FlashUpdate /t 
REG_EXPAND_SZ /d """"%APPDATA%\FlashUpdate.exe""" -update activex" /f 

The module also saves current module file path to the registry in the following key location: 
HKCU\Software\Classes\path 

Next it patches the tmp file with two dword “AAAA” values which looks like corruption of embedded encrypted 
sysbin modules inside. The meaning of this action is currently unclear. 

Then it moves Flash.tmp file to FlashUpdate.exe by and starts a new process from new location. 

Finally, if there is not “qqpctray.exe” process running, and this seemed to be the case for the analyzed system, it 
copies the source executable (FlashUpdate.exe) to %TEMP%\Flash.tmp, patches the new file and increases its size 
by adding system explorer.exe file contents to the resource section “RC Data” 20 times. The purpose of this is to 
make the new executable look like the real update service of Adobe Flash, it simply stuffs the file with executable 
code of another application. Then it moves the file to new location %APPDATA%\FlashUpdate.exe, saves new 
module file path to the registry in the following key location: HKCU\Software\Classes\path and starts a new 
process from there. 

c_20100.NLS (aka SrvCore.dll) File 
 
Size: 15847156 
MD5: 5778178a1b259c3127b678a49cd23e53 
Location: C:\WINDOWS\system32\c_20100.NLS 
Creation time (UTC): unavailable 
Link time (UTC): 2011-09-16 13:23:34 

 
PAGE 38|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Summary 
 
c_20100.NLS works in two modes. The first mode is a load as a dynamic library and the second is a launch as a 
service. Both branches have the same core functionality. 

This module is a universal executable code loader with no embedded payload. Its main purpose is to connect to the 
C&C server, download and store the encrypted payload in the system registry. It is also responsible for loading, 
decrypting and running the payload module from the registry after system restart. 

Details 
c_20100.NLS contains a ciphered block with initial settings. This ciphered block resides at the very end of the file of 
this malicious program and is decrypted in the beginning of execution. Structure of block: 

Initial settings in the end of file 

 

The malicious program XORs the magic number with a hardcoded value 0x19860609, converts a resulted value into 
a HEX-string and uses that string as a key for RC4 cipher algorithm. In this case string-key represents “00000000” 
because of the magic number is equal to the hardcoded XORing value. With that key malicious program decrypts 
(RC4) ciphered archive. The archive has the following data: 

Archive of initial settings 

 

Custom LZ-like compression algorithm resembling was used to pack initial settings. After unpacking the following 
data appears: 

 

 
PAGE 39|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The Initial settings 

 

The malicious program tries to read registry value “SrvCode” by registry path: 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion. That value is expected to contain ciphered with RC4 data. 
To decrypt it program uses 2nd integer of initial settings (in this case 0x3514) XORed by hardcoded byte 0x12. Result 
is converted into a HEX-string and is used as RC4 key for further decryption (here it is “00003506”). That registry 
value appears if this malicious program had already worked on the system and received data from the C&C server 
in the past. Content of “SrvCode” poses a ciphered executable which should be loaded into the memory and run. 

If “SrvCode” is not found malware makes attempts to connect to one of the specified C&C servers. 

 
PAGE 40|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

C&C Server Address Selection 
 
Initial settings define the type of C&C format. Byte at offset 0x24C stores the C&C type value: 

0x00: the malware uses 4 URL-based C&Cs placed at 0x4C, 0x8C, 0xCC and 0x10C offsets. By all appearances these 
are public resources (forums, blog platforms and so on) where the attackers leave messages with specially crafted 
content for a bot. If connection fails, the malware tries another approach. 

0x01: the malware uses attackers’ hardcoded servers and connects to host and port specified at offsets: 0x14C, 
0x18C, 0x1CC and 0x20C. If connection fails the malware tries another approach.  

If URL-based scheme is used then malware loads a web-page by specified in settings URL. The target text has to 
begin and end with special hardcoded delimiters: “B9273C17” – start, “B6A74634” – end. The malware reads 
contents of the webpages until it finds a proper page with delimiters. If found, the malware takes the text between 
delimiters and treats it as data of hex string, converts it to the binary data and decrypts resulted data using RC4 
algorithm with hardcoded key “rtyr_45_trf”. For example: 

 “B9273C17E67024277AE02E2A8A780B243C0BCA88FE85A1B6A7463”, 

The data between delimiters: 

“E67024277AE02E2A8A780B243C0BCA88FE85A1”, 

It is converted into binary: 0xe6 0x70 0x24 … 0xa1 and this buffer is decrypted with RC4 key “rtyr_45_trf”. Result is 
a host and port of C&C: “nx2.intercpu.com:25”. 

If the host-port schema is used then malware simply connects to the hardcoded C&C servers directly. 

Communication with C&C Server 
 
Once a working C&C server is found the malware sends specially crafted ciphered buffer to via TCP/IP. On request 
from a bot a C&C server replies with several blocks of data described below: 

1st block 

0xC bytes of header: 0x1000010, 0x1000010, <reserved 4 bytes>. 

2nd block 

0x1C bytes (due to absence of real respond from the C&C I’m presenting an example buffer of this block containing 
bytes 0x00, 0x11, 0x22, … , 0xFF, 0x00, 0x0, 0x0, …, 0x00): 

2nd block of 0x1c bytes: example 

 

First DWORD of this buffer (here, 0x33221100) is a magic number which is XORed with the value 0x1986052. 
Resulted lowest byte is used to XOR unpacked data.  

 
PAGE 41|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Word at offset 0x4 (here, 0x5544) poses a checksum of unpacked data which should correspond with actual 
received content. 

DWORD starting at offset 0x8 (here, 0xBBAA9988) represents a size of unpacked data. 

Value at marked place at 0xC offset (in example picture it is dword 0xFFEEDDCC) represents a size of next block of 
data to be received. That data will pose an archive, hence this value represents a size of packed data. 

3rd block 

The 3rd block poses an archive of ciphered data. Being received, unpacked and decrypted, data is ciphered again 
with RC4 and stored into “SrvCode” value of registry by mentioned above registry path. 

The eceived data is processed as an executable file to run.  The malware places the executable in memory, 
prepares for running and makes call to the entry point of the new code. Then it waits when following event will be 
triggered: 

Global\D5ACF9F6-C8B3-47d1-9768-57162E1F5FDB 

When triggered, the malware finishes execution. During the process of finishing it deletes registry value “SrvCode” 
along with values “DrvCode” and “KeyCode” from the same registry path although this malware was not creating 
them. 

Tcprelay.sys File 
 
Size: 99912 
MD5: 0b105cd6ecdfe5724c7db52135aa47ef 
Location: C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\tcprelay.sys 
Creation time (UTC): 2012-09-05 17:27:04 
Link time (UTC): 2011-12-21 13:55:03 

This file is a Microsoft Windows native application, which is loaded as a driver and had a valid digital signature in 
2012. 

The certificate was issued by LivePlex Corp, which can be found online by searching for the company name. One of 
their webpages is here: http://www.linkedin.com/company/liveplex 

 

 
PAGE 42|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

Digital certificate of Tcprelay.sys 

 

 

LivePlex profile page on LinkedIn 

 

 
PAGE 43|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

When the driver is loaded it decrypts an embedded DLL file, which is immediately injected into the address space 
of services.exe process. Then the driver sets up some rootkit functionality to hide TCP connections by patching the 
system tcp/ip driver. 

The injected DLL was called s.dll at the time of compilation and is yet another module for analysis. 

S.dll File 
 
Size: 77825 
MD5: 1716889fcee461e7cde5128c14d206cb 
Location: inside tcprelay.sys 
Creation time (UTC): 2012-09-05 17:27:04 
Link time (UTC): 2011-03-01 09:07:12 

This opens system event named “401d-b49a-93cf7a18e5b3” and sets event to fired state if it exists. The code 
checks for proxy server configuration by impersonating  a logged in user and fetching settings from the registry. It 
can work both with Socks and HTTP proxies. The module attempts to connect to the list of 8 domains, consisting of 
the following command and control servers (some of them are used more than once): 

a1.googletrait.com 
a1.nexongame.net 
a1.reegame.net 
mail.nexongame.net 

It automatically looks for open C&C ports in the following order 53,443,8080,25,80,3690,1433,80. 

During connection over HTTP proxy it uses the following User-Agent string: “MyApp/0”. 

The application is linked with libmysql.dll and Zlib (v.1.2.3). Current Zlib version is 1.2.7 and was released on 2nd 
May 2012, while version 1.2.3 seems to be released in July 2005. Zlib version 1.2.4 was released on March 2010, so 
the original module was probably designed somewhere after July 2005 and before March 2010.  

Then it collects system information, which includes the following: 

Host name 
OS Service Pack version 
System default language ID and Code page 
List of local drives with free space 
Internal hardcoded identifier (“12-21”) 
Process commandline 
Logged in user name 
System directory path 
Amount of free system memory 
CPU name  
Terminal services port number 

 
PAGE 44|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The information is stored in a buffer that begins with hardcoded header magic number: 0xDF1F1ED3. The block is 
compressed using Zlib (v.1.2.3) compress2 method with compression level 8. The data is compressed later and 
prepended by a 4-bytes header as shown below. 

Format of a message sent to C&C 

 

After submitting system information the module expects 4 byte response code from the server after which it sends 
one 00 byte to complete the handshake procedure. 

Then the module expects an interactive communication session with the remote operator. It provides capability to 
run various commands including (command names were defined during reverse engineering): 

process_list 
kill_process 
dir_list 
smbshare_list 
smbshare_mount 
dir_make 
file_delete 
file_move 
file_upload 
file_open 
file_write 
file_close 
file_find 
url_download_to_file 
process_start 
process_start_and_get_output 
dll_load 
dll_call_export 
screen_getsnapshot 
screen_set_cursor_position 
screen_send_input 
tcpproxy_open_connection 
tcpproxy_close_connection 
mysql_connect 
mysql_fetch 
mysql_disconnect 
driver_tcpreplay_interact 
tcpsession_close 
quit 

A command output is compressed using Zlib and sent to the server in asynchronous mode. To summarize, it is 
obvious that this executable module is a backdoor, capable of taking screenshots, stealing files, downloading new 

 
PAGE 45|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

files from the Internet, starting and killing processes, including interactive Windows shell commands, file search 
and interaction with mysql database server. 

 

 

 
PAGE 46|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

En.exe File 
 
Size: 405504 
MD5: cf119a66d4c3e2355c1ec4ac316a7130 
Location: C:\RECYCLER\en.exe 
Creation time (UTC): 2012-09-06 04:08:53 
Link time (UTC): 2009-11-17 16:02:04 

An icon embedded in en.exe is a default application icon from MS Visual Studio 

 

This application is a dropper, it fetches a resource called EXEFILE from current application and saves it into 
following paths: 

<CURRENT DIR>\dllcache\sethc.exe 

C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe 

Then the module uses undocumented Windows API from SFC_OS.dll, a function called SfcFileException to update 
the system version of C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe.  

The file C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe (SET High Contrast) is to enable the High Contrast accessibility feature in 
order to allow people with visual impairments to log in. SETHC is activated at logon screen with 
LeftAlt+LeftShift+PrintScreen key combination. 

By replacing C:\Windows\SYSTEM32\SETHC.EXE with a custom application an attacker can run an arbitrary 
application with SYSTEM privileges running in zero session (in separate desktop space from normal applications).  

After the new file replaced the system sethc.exe application, current module adjusts the privileges of sethc.exe to 
disable access to the file from any other application. This is achieved by calling external system tools cacls. 

Replace access rights to the files, allow everyone full access: 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /c /e /p everyone:f 

cacls <CURRENT DIR>\dllcache\sethc.exe /c /e /p everyone:f 

 
PAGE 47|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Revoke access to the file for everyone, leave only system readonly access: 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /t /c /e /r everyone 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /t /c /e /r administrators 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /t /c /e /r users 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /t /c /e /r system 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /t /c /e /r “Power Users” 

cacls C:\WINDOWS\system32\sethc.exe /c /e /p system:r 

The dropper also changes the file timestamp. It is set identical to C:\WINDOWS\system32\ntvdm.exe. 

The dropper application has a resource section with Menu, Dialog templates and other information put by the MS 
Visual Studio Application Wizard. It includes default system locale from the developer's system, which is Chinese 
Simplified.  

The dropped application (from resource EXEFILE) is described below as sethc.exe. 

Chinese locale in resource section of En.exe 

Sethc.exe File 
 
Size: 20480 
MD5: 3ba06424e8244f17a8d269c4d40c39c9 
Location: resource section of En.exe 
Link time (UTC): 2009-05-16 07:09:35 

This small file has very basic functionality. It is written using MS Visual C++ with MFC and is used to render a simple 
dialog window. Like En.exe it has resource section, describing the dialog window and default locale is set to 
Chinese Simplified.  

Once it replaced local system sethc.exe tool it can be invoked when the desktop is locked with 
LeftCtrl+LeftShift+PrintScr key combination. This brings a dialog Window similar to system StickyKeys application. 
However, if you press Ctrl+Alt+F you will immediately see a hidden input box. If you enter “ydteam” in the input 
box and press Ctrl+Alt+K, the application will welcome you with a message box and will execute a TaskManager.  

 
PAGE 48|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Fake SetHighContrast application in action 

 

As far as sethc.exe is executed with privileges of local system, the task manager also inherits these privileges and is 
capable of killing any other process as well as starting any other application with system rights. Apparently, this is a 
backdoor to the system. An attacker can run cmd.exe, add local users with administrative privileges and log in. We 
checked if the tool was publicly shared on the Internet, but couldn't find a page distributing it freely. That is why 
we assume that it is developed and used privately. 

Full list of C&Cs 
Below is full list of all collected domains and IP-addresses of C&C servers have they been mentioned in initial 
settings of c_20100.nls or hidden in text messages at public places in Internet: 

C&Cs from public resources: 

27.115.103.198:8885 
27.115.103.195:8885 
114.222.36.32:10000 
27.115.103.195:23456 
27.115.103.195:10000 
nx2.joymax.in:80 
nx3.joymax.in:80 

nx2.intercpu.com:25 (174.36.138.30) 
nx3.intercpu.com:25 (174.36.138.30) 
nx3.interdriver.net:53 (119.240.212.110) 
stan227.guicp.net:8008 

 
 
PAGE 49|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

Hardcoded C&C from the malware: 

service.interdriver.net:443 (98.126.218.64, 199.188.106.231) 
service.googlefiles.net:53 (98.126.218.64, 199.188.106.231) 
service.dell-support.org:25 
service.hp-supports.com:80 
tank.hja63.com 
a1.googletrait.com 
a1.nexongame.net 
a1.reegame.net 
mail.nexongame.net 

Interestingly, there is an overlap of C&Cs from public resources and hardcoded domains: 

nx3.interdriver.net:53 <===> service.interdriver.net:443 

The nx3.interdriver.net was published by awertasegfae@yahoo.com and was discovered at  

http://awertasegfae.blogspot.ru/2011/10/first-test.html. This means that at least the individual who owns 
awertasegfae@yahoo.com for sure belongs to the same gang who attacked CompanyXYZ. 

 

 
PAGE 50|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Source of Attacks 

So, who is behind Winnti? While analyzing the malicious files that we detected during our investigations we found 
some details which may cast some light on the source of the attacks.  

As part of our investigation, we monitored exactly what the cybercriminals did on an infected PC. In particular, they 
downloaded an auxiliary program ff._exe to the Config.Msi folder on the infected machine. This code searches for 
HTML, MS Excel, MS Word, Adobe, PowerPoint and MS Works documents and text files (.txt) on the hard drive. 

Debugging lines were found in ff._exe_ that possibly point to the nationality of the cybercriminals. They were not 
immediately noticeable because they looked like this in the editor: 

However, during a detailed analysis it emerged that the text is in Chinese Simplified GBK coding. This is what these 
lines look in Chinese: 

 

 
PAGE 51|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

Below is a machine translation of this text into English:   

Not identify the type of file system 
Below is a translation of the text by interpreter 
Open the volume failed 
Failed to get the file system type 
Failed to read volume 
Volumes do not open or open failed 
Navigate to the root directory of the error 
Error memory read pointer 
Memory is too small 
File does not exist 
Failed to get the file mft index sector 
Access to file data fail 
Volume and open volumes are not the same 
The same volume and open volume 

In addition, cybercriminals used the AheadLib program to create malicious libraries (for details, see the second part 
of the article). This is a program with a Chinese interface.  

Chinese text was also found in one of the components of the malicious program CmdPlus.dll plug-in: 

Translation: The process is complete!! 

 

It would appear that the attackers can at least speak Chinese. However, not everything is so clear cut: because the 
file transfer plug-in has not been implemented entirely safely, a command which includes the attackers’ local path 
(where the file comes from and where it is saved to) arrives during the process of downloading/uploading files on 
the  infected  system.  While  monitoring  the  cybercriminals’  activity  on  the  infected  machine,  we  noticed  they 
uploaded  the  certificate  they  found  in  the  infected  system,  and  the  network  traffic  reflected  the  local  path 
indicating the place where they saved the file on their computer: 

These characters appear to be  Korean, meaning “desktop”. This means the  attackers were  working on a Korean 
Windows  operating  system.  Therefore,  we  can  presume  that  the  attack  is  not  exclusively  the  work  of  Chinese-
speaking cybercriminals.   

 

 
PAGE 52|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The Search for Attackers  (XYZ incident) 

Locating the attacker is one of the most non-trivial parts of the research. The attackers normally do not leave any 
traces in the malware that can be directly bound to their real identities. That is why we have to use all available 
bits of information that seems to find other unique related content on the Internet or any other available data 
sources. One of the important stages is to extract unique identifiers/nicknames/tags that can be discovered on the 
Internet and after that find individuals who are related to creation or distribution of this content. 

YDTeam Hacking Group 
 
The string “ydteam” looked non-random and we decided to check it on the Internet. It turned out that YDteam is a 
hackers group name and has a lot of references on Chinese segment of the Internet: 

http://zhikou.yo2.cn/  - probably a team member web blog 

http://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/11053/ - PoC exploit for Chinese media player by the team member called “t-
bag” 

Another team member called “b4che10r” according to 

http://zzsky.5d6d.net/archiver/tid-127.html 

http://hi.baidu.com/0x255/item/22cbbfe97ca9963c87d9de41 

http://www.indetectables.net/viewtopic.php?f=87&t=22185&view=print 

b4che10r's personal blog: http://blog.taskkill.net/ 

Another team member called “Shalyse” according to  

http://forum.cnsec.org/thread-50222-1-1.html 

Another team member called “killer” according to  

http://zzsky.5d6d.net/archiver/tid-127.html 

There was a website ydteam.cn that seems to be related to the activity of the group. According to the 
domaintools.com database, it was registered on 2009-10-06 15:12 and put on hold around 2010-10-08. The 
original WHOIS information from domaintools.com: 

Domain Name: ydteam.cn 
ROID: 20091006s10001s23027085-cn 
Domain Status: ok 
Registrant Organization: 魏楠 
Registrant Name: 魏楠 
Administrative Email: wn6805@126.com 
Sponsoring Registrar: 北京新网数码信息技术有限公司 
Name Server:ns.xinnetdns.com 
Name Server:ns.xinnet.cn 

 
PAGE 53|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Registration Date: 2009-10-06 15:12 
Expiration Date: 2010-10-06 15:12 

Registrant name 魏楠 (Wei Nan) seems to be represented in the mailbox wn6805@126.com, which could mean 
the owner of the website used real identity. The domain was most likely registered by the team leader. 

The email itself was used on several other websites. For example 

http://tieba.baidu.com/f?ct=335544320&lm=0&rn=30&tn=baiduPostBrowser&sc=0&z=633089789&pn=0&
word=%BC%AF%C4%FE%D2%BB%D6%D0 

The webpage above has a post  offering to “help with cheap shopping online”. That is most likely related to a 
fraudulent activity of the email owner (stolen Internet-banking credentials or credit card information). The same 
page reveals a QQ id of that individual and a username: 

 

QQ: 
Username:   大头禹 

97676416 

Another page http://www.gtvod.com/gtvod/jsp/public/personal/index.jsp?id=20100127213936126005 shows 
information about the user registered with name “wn3118” and the same email: 

wn6805@126.com 

E-mail:   
Date of Birth:  1992-12-21 
Marital Status:  Unmarried 

 

Another page http://tieba.baidu.com/p/652667782 has a message from profile “灬low-key, wn” (which links to 
wn6805@126.com). Profile information reveals gender of the individual: 
http://www.baidu.com/p/%E7%81%AC%E4%BD%8E%E8%B0%83%E4%B8%B6wn/detail 

Gender: Male  

There are few essays in Chinese probably written by the individual owning wn6805@126.com while studying at 
Junior High School: 

(posted on 2008-09-24): http://www.zww.cn/zuowen/html/25/258151.htm 

(posted on 2008-10-05) http://www.zww.cn/zuowen/html/25/263081.htm 

(posted on 2009-04-08): http://www.zww.cn/zuowen/html/51/350029.htm  

 

A page from zww.cn also shows some details about the author: 
http://www.zww.cn/zw/myzw.asp?u=%CA%A7%C8%A5%B0%AE 

1992-12-21 (confirms previous finding) 
251985076 

Birthday: 
QQ: 
 
Joined:  2008-09-16 22:35:00 
Last login: 

2009-06-09 10:37:00 

 

 

 
PAGE 54|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Searching for the QQ id 251985076 brings to http://blog.sina.com.cn/dahuadl that has  
User mobile number: 13847416805 

The hackers team also seemed to own ydteam.com for some time according to reference at 
http://zzsky.5d6d.net/archiver/tid-127.html 

Domaintools.com shows that the domain was registered to a Chinese individual from 2009-06-03 to 2011-08-22. 
After that WHOIS information was protected by a Privacy protection service. Here is WHOIS data at the time of 
domain registration: 
 
Admin Name........... zheng wenlong 
Admin Address........ tianjin jiefangdongjie 63hao 
Admin Address........ yancheng 
Admin Address........ 300560 
Admin Address........ fujian 
Admin Address........ CHINA 
Admin Email.......... vydteam@yahoo.cn 
Admin Phone.......... +86.13652452428 

Please note, that +8613652452428 is a Chinese local cell phone number. 

 

Domaintools.com has also preserved a screenshot of the website while it was online on 2010-02-25. It shows some 
of the team member names mentioned above. 

 
PAGE 55|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Ydteam website as it was in 2010 

 

Another trace to the source of attack is based on email sender IP address. The emails were sent from 
118.142.11.114. According to robtex.com, there are 2 domain names that share this IP: 

pad62.com 
ru.pad62.com 

Pad62.com was created in 2011-06-05, on the date of registration if had non-protected WHOIS information, 
according to domaintools.com: 

Registrant: ji shao 
Xuan Die Xiao Jie 418 Kao 
peng hu, xiang gang 064562 
China 

 
PAGE 56|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Registered through: GoDaddy.com, Inc. 
Domain Name: PAD62.COM 
Created on: 05-Jun-11 
Expires on: 05-Jun-12 
Last Updated on: 05-Jun-11 

Administrative Contact: 
shao, ji  huisengaunr@sina.com 
Xuan Die Xiao Jie 418 Kao 
peng hu, xiang gang 064562 
China 
 1-330-040-0367 

We checked which other domains are associated with the WHOIS information above and found the following 
domain names: 

100-d.com  
sm08.com  
cx-cx.com  
6-pro.com  
aohoe.info  
besheo.info  
dyyerre.info  
jiaoyouliaotian.org  
tao5178.info 

One more route is to check the C&C of the initial dropper/downloader module. This was  tank.hja63.com. 
Acccording to domain tools, hja63.com had non-protected WHOIS information in 2011: 

Registrant: ji shao 
 Xuan Die Xiao Jie 418 Kao 
 peng hu, xiang gang 064562 
 China 
 
 Registered through: GoDaddy.com, Inc.  
   Domain Name: HJA63.COM 
   Created on: 05-Jun-11 
   Expires on: 05-Jun-12 
   Last Updated on: 05-Jun-11 
 
   Administrative Contact: 
    shao, ji  huisengaunr@sina.com 
    Xuan Die Xiao Jie 418 Kao 
    peng hu, xiang gang 064562 
    China 
      1-330-040-0367       
 

When we checked, tank.hja63.com resolved to 173.234.184.45 (owned by DiaHosting Limited, USA), while 
hja63.com resolved to 68.178.232.100 (GoDaddy ISP server). 

 
PAGE 57|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Bot Control Messages On Public Resources 
 
Analysis of the file c_20100.nls revealed additional information leading to probable attackers. Looking for 
identifiers (used as message boundaries, or delimiters) B9273C17 and B6A74634 specified in this malicious file on 
Internet we found the following pages where the attackers left messages for the bots: 

http://osdir.com/ml/openmeetings-dev/2011-10/msg00214.html 
http://osdir.com/ml/openmeetings-dev/2011-10/msg00215.html 
http://osdir.com/ml/openmeetings-dev/2011-10/msg00241.html 

An encoded C&C address for a bot on a public webpage 

Another place of just mentioned forum thread: 

https://groups.google.com/group/openmeetings-
dev/browse_thread/thread/ccfeb8242a4f11ec/a700f22be192482a?show_docid=a700f22be192482a&pli=1 
https://groups.google.com/group/openmeetings-dev/tree/browse_frm/month/2011-
10/a8509400cef9a8ac?rnum=221&_done=%2Fgroup%2Fopenmeetings-dev%2Fbrowse_frm%2Fmonth%2F2011-
10%3F 

 

 
PAGE 58|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Some more server addresses for the bot 

 

Here, we see these emails used as commenters’ identifiers: 

Jimycoco…@gmail.com 
awertase...@yahoo.com 

Jimycoco…@gmail.com most probably refers to Jimycocowell which is a username that pops up further. 

Searching for “awertase” brought another forum thread where ciphered data for the same bot appeared: 

http://osdir.com/ml/openmeetings-dev/2011-09/msg00364.html 

Yet another message for bots from awertase... 

 

 

 

 
PAGE 59|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The full email behind awertase...@xxxxxxxx seems to be awertasegfae@yahoo.com according to 
http://awertasegfae.blogspot.ru/2011/10/first-test.html 

http://hi.baidu.com/alonecode/item/6936f85a3d98ce3533e0a9ed 

 

Another webpage with message for bots 

    

According to Figure 32, “mer4en7y” and “alonecode” (from the URL of the page) are nicknames which are related 
to the user of the Baidu blog platform where messages for a bot were left. Google Search for the nickname 
“mer4en7y” returned 5490 results. This is a very active user that posts messages for this type of bot. The first 
results lead to hacker forums and IT-security specific web-platforms. The same nickname has appeared on a well-
known Romanian Security Team forum. 

Mer4en7y Individual Activity 
 

mer4en7y username at Romanian hackers forum 

 

 
PAGE 60|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y at Silic Group Hacker Forum 

 

According to the following, Mer4en7y submitted a vulnerability found in Weihai City Commercial 
Bank system: 

http://wooyun.org/bugs/wooyun-2010-011002 

 

 

 
PAGE 61|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y's activity on vulnerability research 

 

Favorite videos and tutorials of Mer4en7y: 

http://www.tdcqjslt.com/u.php?uid=1918 

 

Mer4en7y's favorites confirm malware-related activities 

 

Mer4en7y’s micro-blogging page at t.qq.com: http://t.qq.com/mer4en7y 

Alias of that profile is translated as “watching a rain”. 

 

 
PAGE 62|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y's microblogging profile 

 

A user with nickname “d4nr4n” (http://t.qq.com/d4nr4n) is posting a message where mer4en7y is mentioned: 

Mer4en7y's relation to Nanjing 

 

Google translation: “%mentioned individuals% go to Nanjing tomorrow xx training institutions to maintain four 
months … C++ learning, seeking Nanjing-based friends of the exchange” 

Mer4en7y at yoyo2008.com: 

http://www.yoyo2008.com/home.php?mod=space&uid=41498 

 

 
PAGE 63|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y profile at yoyo2008.com 

 

One of two friends of Mer4en7y in yoyo2008 social network is a user named “mayuan” which seems to be from 
Xinjiang and a graduate of Judicial Police School according to shared private information out there: 

Mer4en7y's contact profile at yoyo2008.com 

http://u.pintour.com/uid-b1bf56e230cc42d9bfa003a7718888d2/ 

 

 
PAGE 64|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Another Mer4en7y profile show Nanjing as a hometown 

 

Mer4en7y’s exploit has been involved in the penetration of public radio service ftp server (according to WHOIS 
information this domain belongs to Xi'an Municipal Bureau of Radio and Television). 

A trace of cyberattack based on Mer4en7y's code 

 

As we can see here Mer4en7y had an email address associated with 90sec hackers team.  

Another reference on the net shows that Mer4en7y is after sourcecode of proprietary products (probably udf.dll 
from Roxio Inc): 

http://www.uedbox.com/udf-dll-source/ 

Mer4en7y discussing udf.dll source-code and cmdshell 

 

 
PAGE 65|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The following confirms that Mer4en7y is a member of 90sec group. The group website is located at 
http://www.90sec.org/: 

90Sec team about-page 

 

Mer4en7y replies on job offer posted at 90sec forum (someone wanted to hire computer exerts with very special 
knowledge): 

https://forum.90sec.org/viewthread.php?action=printable&tid=2012 

Rough translation of job offer from Chinese: 

“Subject: Looking for information security researcher 
From: Southland sword  

Time: 2012-04-06 00:38  

Subject: Security researcher job 
Responsibilities: 

1.  Full target penetration alone or with a team depending on available resources; 
2.  Penetration testing report and recommendations 

 
Technical requirements: 

1.  Knowledge of penetration testing, methods, processes, proficiency in a variety of penetration testing tools; 
2.  Knowledge of common Web development languages (asp, php, jsp), experience with SQL-injection, XSS, 

common websecurity exploits and patches; 

3.  Experience with all kinds of operating systems and databases for common security vulnerabilities; 
4.  Good verbal and written language skills ; 
5.  Be able to work in a team; individuals who lose trust, do not listen to the teamleader and not accepting the 

rules will be kicked out; 

 
PAGE 66|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Work Location: Guangdong (OR Guangzhou Shenzhen)  

Baochibaozhu package, Relatively free playing time. 
Salary: monthly allocation of the total amount of work and cooperation share more than 1W. 
Vacancies: 5 people 
For candidates: first contact me (preferably work resume), after my check the resume will be passed to the head 
coordinator for arranging a personal meeting. 
Salary: free meal and apartments, office location is in a senior villa suite of 200 square meters, computers are 
available but please bring your own hard drive with environment and tools you are familiar with. Even a single 
completed project will provide you with money for your monthly expenses. 
Powerful background. No comments! 

Tho who are competent, please contact: 
Email: Infosec@cntv.cn QQ: admin@inessus.com” 

And Mer4en7y’s replied to this job offer: 

Mer4en7y's comment about job offer 

 

Which can be translated as: “Aren’t you recruiting people for APT? Guangzhou is too far, but anyway I support it”.  

There are some interesting comments in the mentioned forum thread regarding reference “Powerful background” 
in job offer. People in the thread speculated that it could mean the work is supported by the government. 

Mer4en7y is publishing an exploit: 

http://www.hackqing.com/index.asp?FoxNews=129.html 

 
PAGE 67|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y's exploit code in PHP 

 

Mer4en7y published a modified Perl script for network scan: 

http://www.2cto.com/kf/201110/109200.html 

 
PAGE 68|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Mer4en7y's network scanner on Perl 

 

Jimmycocowell Individual Activity 
 
Let’s continue with other places where delimiters have been found: 
https://www.myspace.com/574064782/blog 

Another bot control message by Wz 

 

 
PAGE 69|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

http://www.wuhanbike.net/home.php?mod=space&uid=15845&do=profile 

Another bot control message by 奔跑 (Run) 

 

 

http://jimycocowell.blogspot.ru/ 

Another bot control message by Jimmycocowell 

 

 
PAGE 70|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

The attacker left two messages. The very first one is labeled as “first home”/ “first love” and contains a ciphered 
C&C domain as  described above, i.e. C&C domain is encrypted with RC4 algorithm and its hex binary value is 
presented in text format between delimiters.  

 

But the next message dubbed “second” contains a ciphered C&C domain too but it is encoded in another way: The 
initial C&C domain is XORed with fixed byte value and the resulted data is transformed using BASE64 encoding. The 
resulted text is inserted between the same delimiters. By all appearances this method is used in the next version of 
the backdoor which is the subject of current research (see c_20100.NLS). It is also possible that programs with 
support of either this or that encryption could be used simultaneously in the frame of one attack. Between all 
found messages for the bot the second type of messages (BASE64) is significantly prevalent. 

A link to this “Jimycocowell home” is also present at following place of “bitgodgod” user: 
http://www.blogger.com/profile/06442609461818597659 

Jimmycocowell registration date and alias 

 

Bitgodgod and Bitbugbug 
 
We have located one sample of Winnti malware with a hardcoded C&C:  mail.7niu.com.  
Domaintools information about the domain: 

Domain Name      : 7niu.com 
PunnyCode        : 7niu.com 
Creation Date    : 2006-06-11 00:00:00 
Updated Date     : 2012-01-27 21:35:57 
Expiration Date  : 2016-06-11 00:00:00 
 
  Registrant: 
  Organization   : qi tou niu 
  Name           : xibei jiao 
  Address        : beijing 
  City           : beijing 
  Province/State : Beijing 
  Country        : CN 
  Postal Code    : 100000 
 

 
PAGE 71|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 Administrative Contact: 
  Name           : xibei jiao 
  Organization   : qi tou niu 
  Address        : beijing 
  City           : beijing 
  Province/State : Beijing 
  Country        : beijing 
  Postal Code    : 100000 
  Phone Number   : 86--1321333333 
  Fax            : 86--010555555 
  Email          : bit_bugbug@tom.com 
 
 Technical Contact: 
  Name           : xibei jiao 
  Organization   : qi tou niu 
  Address        : beijing 
  City           : beijing 
  Province/State : Beijing 
  Country        : CN 
  Postal Code    : 100000 
  Phone Number   : 86--1321333333 
  Fax            : 86--010555555 
  Email          : rain@etang.com 

You can see how similar “bitbugbug” and “bitgodgod”. Both are directly related to Winnti activity. 
The email address “bit_bugbug@tom.com” also can be found on Chinese websites about home rentals: 

http://oldhouse.0379home.com/RentView-1108.html 

 
PAGE 72|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

Yang Individual Activity 
 
We have located another individual calling himself Yang. He distributed bot control commands and was quite 
active on the internet as well.  

http://yang8559420.blog.163.com/ 

Yang8559420 blog 

 

Search for “yang8559420” brought some results: 

Yang is a distributor of resources (maps or programs) for applications based on ArcGIS Engine 
(http://www.esri.com/software/arcgis/arcgisengine) 

http://shop65775432.taobao.com/?spm=a1z0b.7.2-2442034955.3.rfLsIS 

 

 
PAGE 73|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Yang offered ArcGIS engine sourcecode for sale 

 

Information about the seller: 

http://shop65775432.taobao.com/view_page-74445421.htm 

Yang8559420 trader profile (Chinese) 

 

 
PAGE 74|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Yang8559420 trader profile (English Google-translation) 

 

Yang is certified at alipay.com (see field “Certification” above): 

http://help.alipay.com/lab/help_detail.htm?help_id=211779 

Alipay certification 

 

Yang left some feedback about a coat: 

http://www.yifa8.com/4/766/770/763311.html 

 

 
PAGE 75|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

 

 

Yang comments on the internet (private life related) 

Yang is selling glasses: 

http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:susBSuR_5zoJ:re.taobao.com/search%3Frefpid%3Dmm_
16823808_2252954_8791633%26keyword%3D%2525D5%2525E6%2525CB%2525BF%252520%2525C1%2525AC%
2525D2%2525C2%2525C8%2525B9%252520%2525C7%2525E5%2525B2%2525D6%26back%3Dlo1%25253D0%252
526lo2%25253D0%252526nt%25253D1%26isinner%3D1%26yp4p_page%3D3%26posid%3D7+%22yang8559420%2
2&cd=14&hl=ru&ct=clnk&gl=ru 

 

 
PAGE 76|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Glasses for sale by Yang 

 

http://bbs.iaixue.com/home.php?mod=space&uid=217&do=profile 

User: lovemeyang (probably related to Yang). Signature is a message for a bot: 

Another message for bot by lovemeyang 

 

So, both Yang8559420 and Lovemeyang messages go with signature: 

http://bbs.iaixue.com/forum.php?mod=viewthread&tid=261 

 
PAGE 77|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Same signature used by Yang8559420 and Lovemeyang 

http://bbs.iaixue.com/forum.php?mod=viewthread&tid=612 

… 

 

 

Signature by Lovemeyang 

 

 

Search for “lovemeyang” returned too much data, making it difficult tofilter out those identifying possible attackers 
– false positives are highly-probable. However, it’s worth mentioning that the following link refers to an account 

 
PAGE 78|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

with the “lovemeyang” username and the user has earlier posted blogs relating to IT-security, so possibly the user 
is that Yang who is involved in the attack: 

http://lovemeyang.blog.51cto.com/659880/195451 

Yang and relation to a malware 

 

 

 

 
PAGE 79|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Conclusions 

Our research revealed long-term oriented large scale cyber-espionage campaign of a criminal group with Chinese 
origins. These attacks are not new, many other security researchers have published details of various cybercriminal 
groups coming from China. However, the current hacking group has distinguishable features that make it stand out 
among others: 

-  Massive abuse of digital signatures; the attackers used digital signatures of one victim company to attack 

other companies and steal more digital certificates; 

-  Usage of kernel level 64-bit signed rootkit; 
-  Abusing great variety of public Internet resources to store control commands for the malware in an 

encrypted form; 
Sharing/selling stolen certificates to other groups that had different objectives (attacks against Uyghur and 
Tibetan activists); 
Stealing source code and other intellectual property of software developers in online gaming industry. 

- 

- 

The Winnti hacking group is not the first and not the last. By making our research paper available to the public, we 
hope that it will not only spread the knowledge among security researchers but also will help system 
administrators and security officials in all type of organizations around the world to learn the tactics and tools of 
the perpetrators. We hope that our shared knowledge will help to better protect IT infrastructure. We also hope 
that our message will reach Chinese law enforcement agencies. If the current research is not enough to initiate 
criminal investigation, we hope that it will be enough at least to make some checks and probably prevent other 
malicious activity from reaching out foreign countries and business within China. 

 

 

 

 
PAGE 80|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

Win32 samples 

 

 

Appendix 

Winnti MD5s: 

Winnti 1.0 

006c4561499da562a4e337e2c146cf1a 
024CC9872D9F413292D0F952920547CA 
0613d67070679fb97ddefc5973c4d604 
0630a443bd0102647ca1707cdf7f8c35 
0751ca6f8b652cae6f2b650f0cf9036a 
095a6a3b6eba996d2786b5ec919b1a7e 
0af3761919bffa0019e7899333846b27 
0f3c15de074f934499f5bbc095d5557f 
11ed89f0ab17cf3973e2bf970879661a 
128cb2a5de0d0422d69bab6d23ebb0aa 
17c72e0cde2e4019a6b885f8188ac410 
18813863417608b4ad14babebcafcb57 
1a5da850993681e685893547d1aa2eaf 
1ab7360a9438fb816f01ac00c17c9da4 
1d688ca3148df378a15796f43242b77c 
2128b6c7ec7848b73aeb6f211cef7615 
296220a85742a8722b1335977dd98251 
379251974ebcd5c397f92ca45bb9620d 
38fb6993c3c94ea6df01235f44be4e77 
3c722f0bea82e5bb8958f7fab012c911 
3ecbc145dd593ec431145dd84e1e50cb 
4038fb208d4b50e1f5f765811fdac174 
41ff77ea7d4960c75d272a6a6fc31e7c 
4402db68df6682bfe3e1e855a2474444 
4722c665196fb6c7450980eafde6ac86 
4e8f1c053dbe449c93f04e11d4afa352 
4f213f9f187a65ce437157a3e7d253c0 
50635147a579a8c8859a49c609f9d3d2 
50678adefc49735a4f236e06e83c089d 
5156bc9f1dd8ef1c1055933bb9c89c91 
516fe9d2fe8b047fa8ba993692f44482 
5171b030750f364a3459d5de22bc875d 
5a93c03ddfe3edeb2573b72d12ebe0e5 
5db7ba6e771cef48c623ae48fbb4740b 
629c0a9d3d0f471005c87d06aed45113 
64d225a757686db6263e5df919e9dfd6 
6db0e662dad6407f666aa0ea4b995e7f 
7460f35e3b24db9b92bc4cccb6c3f3ac 
7529e41a101170eadb83bcb77bf29e65 
814001293e4a50d12cf55563e0b95ffe 
81b27822a6619a7c78eebbd6dc4b889d 
9251ff253c38c437bad4926378981ad0 
9a575f37ffa684d56d1f5ffebc24b8f3 

 
PAGE 81|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

a2c3fa86d43eca498c2b6ee8b5ecafb1 
a62afe6d59ae1ac32e8afbb88345ba03 
a91f69fc4b353d4228990464ca791705 
ada3fb277229d6a12df364fd856f00c3 
b01145e9d0c0f9d2822a250df95d888e 
b28a68036b34e5d74672b289591aefa4 
babd625bb2284d58a9c1884a80f07bdd 
bb79348412e72e77a8254fc289244829 
bc3ffe2761d210fa05dde9ced4ed4869 
be8b2bf704a1165d5b8b4e26fff4180c 
c050c1ca31e8509f7b12824824ba2ddd 
c181065a366ea6f8c6791fd87fcb86d6 
c248c15622cfb0985fb421c29771d6ae 
c2ac3d2f0299633e2c588d2fa43d0d63 
c2c2eb5f0762db8068bd4031bd6b59bc 
c35180bd2138fd81469805d8eb3480bf 
ca69ffc76e74e9d17f26f5f5b20a1db7 
d202ca2b2e04b2b730c43e5a13927096 
d8e289fba6a22cb853d737676ab1545d 
e0df537f91f3bc3713a5ec5cf41f9e2d 
e2e314cbdcf493bcd14cea9cdd887786 
e464e0d0893add9d71bb951502ae738a 
e58c7b9b2576c63ac60743a99310664b 
eda0eb9e5c08729f12ddb64f6ec7ae2f 
f06ec81a1f416812ffcc47fd5f709b50 
f39fda34f2e332ddb1363f5e0e541c26 
faa77eacaa7de27b0f04c3139066d73c 
01f1204f54c645a13368e1ba54179779 
099116c83c9b95ea71e75e1760fced28 
2ad67673a4facf2b493ca5989839d8e3 
2ec43703cc80323ae32fed751bedfff1 
4a02ce3d6c6696ddda2a673298870e16 
4b8fd1ee47f17164e61194f6b2dbfa40 
508f0af84d83e093bf6910dbab45421f 
5c865404f27f5e5b83b6fcfd94068118 
8a0a00b1676c3b65b3c56dab7f8feb99 
91ae694e565f4a2f52d5f792d8353fcd 
95DF76F2ABDB9B133003D4DB637DC67B 
be594ee2a7e4b11878de020cf724205f 
ce3f94fea7f57ce5a9a5a26e51b617fb 
d07f8aa768f7886400bb725c23fd2421 
d9792b5f7bf497a3584d0c0d388f6b16 
efdda5d0a14810ff86e60a70c5baa6b0 
f975d016b83880c898b334714c1291b0 
fc293476226d1471c8de65ab65af7b2f 

 

24c846e935d1efdd090469a69e01da65 
604c8b4f2f82e016cff74ebc4a359e34 

 
PAGE 82|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

Win64 samples 

 

 

624db864fe644bc08c16cdbdb8f4bdfb 
677c3236b3acac70f528de8b4cf62539 
6e83c0e6739a2782ce385632f5e982c3 
6e927175a6224add534a6072bc6a6170 
7ea57ad96cee3db9baf5a36b43ba9abc 
92fd35efabf8d774cf5bb4c2be8b733c 
9642c7ee5819f5f8f3f8354da0845190 
a00c66d502453524a7fe411ce7bbfea4 
b062063cf2d5b7fcc4abd8390e4f0090 
c9e55d71b7d8f05324c3ad041a943103 
c9e9b8103077d9a9bb21e563f14ef738 
ce3eecc1cc27e753b3eeae50074c3edd 
d194316fc5a7f7b433d26ed9da09b249 
de1ea8d6c20d8ecdd1c29219e30d4984 
e5338b89c4721482df24f9aa5a3c6389 
ec6d53e1a030e166acbc6f357362c195 
66de2aaad67446aabbe5adeb873b4b24 
8505e92a2c3812ec298acd6bb20437a2 
9f5b4f39699fda67ffa65f98086f7451 
B8F03B556AE4255BA8D828B6D9909B08 
efb16a33a0c9da12a71ef44e7d688233 

 

5ce790274b7507740e9983d2efe69c17 
679ba94211a4e027c2b56b959e62c8e3 
6b4ab6ca6808e955a6fd11ae5ffea1f6 
6f5a10edc2c7319b8d7abc0a606e5ce6 
ca04aa367e6f090903018131245296ce 
e8e1f133ef1a303e2e901e59329af1dd 
4591d01a291b700efbc5b263c67a266c 

 

Winnti 1.1 

1014374a0b4972adec93a015df6e4558 
582f84b21978cab7d190aef663a268ea 
2d0950f69e206486c5272f2b0fc3aa22 
a374be9091ed1791424fc236144e9d81 
e867dba9d96acae55552777a8729a45a 
f809eea8170afacd2dfe2c45ba86861e 

 

07a18ad4d859c67f208ccb76a7e6a184 
0996b71f1364acde317881810c5912f0 
97f64270b59b0f6b83ec93efc41543fd 

 
PAGE 83|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

Drivers 

Win32 samples 

Drivers 

Droppers 

Samples 

Droppers 

 

 

 

509c562db69f8332b9fc3298236e8ffa 
130a799edeb0753164cdb76ccf8fd64c 
5654424ea88de69d5c6031f7009f0428 

Winnti 1.2 

0393eebedbde6e5ee868f81ac024b401 
36711896cfeb67f599305b590f195aec 
43da75e7f8e7e1893dce276bd5b2e680 
535ede2d69a7e07a097ef6648b12e417 
8acb42de94427141f7caffed74f9fc43 
a0a96138b57ee24eed31b652ddf60d4e 
d350ae5dc15bcc18fde382b84f4bb3d0 
e252d9ec48bca3d261f5acdd33bfd1cb 
f454ba447eef28f96dafe3398df82a7e 
011815cb37f49a1d14d3db895a5e705f 
115dc2627483aba7119ad4ceab1e042a 
18677c3a2af1476aa8cbc73cfb74d8c1 
1b0753f717d7a33defc389e399b20d57 
29525be71ba4846739e553a0835ab460 
2989b78ac3a752bf6792ac9ac606fdf0 
2ffc739a927b62d4b7096e636951b77d 
3047ed57acac30c2327e74070b3864b7 
3d107d5bdf554c6ae8d05c886080a18d 
4197499923ab6125e2ee5e950b21ec91 
453021b8cc10f9077fa80d60d09c631d 
4732d2056060c66f46caded82954836e 
4d028c7a47c1b0d00e894ad351a61996 
6e9b47f2ae1f9e7260b8793f35fbbd3a 
8a1d1965b2d8501e692394bb801f58ca 
a0629962c34ed9594b18493f459560a7 
ada515709be09e495bc9c1206069e796 
bfcd3417b513a6c3fed4b5466055d939 

 

60bd5a9ab78f6c614b824ddcb47dfd7c 
8f54cf08ee45a8d5eb31d05dbab4b561 
15d6249e0e7e03b3e00cc3917431cf64 
4fbb502ba8c7e8d81ec98a5974b9001a 
5618bc41af50c790c8e8680ba30030ed 
7d51ea0230d4692eeedc2d5a4cd66d2d 
961954bbc411d4eafd72efad94a6e160 
c206992f7c6836ec6a227a6e29ae7609 

 

 
PAGE 84|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

Winnti 2.0 

06d8b1468f09d10aa5c4b115544ccc6e 
0cd07490fc02e2a602781bb939d0bc3d 
2d0950f69e206486c5272f2b0fc3aa22 
3358c54a22d186ec9de0f15bc4bb2698 
35bdc5a2acf35bdf9fb9169e1a47d3e7 
5778178a1b259c3127b678a49cd23e53 
6dfcdc4c8edc77642f15592143f34569 
9a83cd3f8e619c8b1b38b0b5ceeea357 
afe4ec9a88f84fbf9c1eb0f3ff47a12b 
B0BD6C215A7C20B23FD23D77FA26F3BA 
bbbb9bb5c7a59b98f18b06344ac8980f 
d23237edbdcc4118b538454b45c00021 
d4a2060a5086c56f7ff65eaa65de81ff 
dc22d742a15f8d6d8edf49d1c8cc8be9 
e7e5c5c991e6d66fca16c988c891e10f 
f4c9bc4f045b90c496df4b75398dfa5c 

 

04f3fbaaaf5026df29e0d7d317194043 
07e40089cdf338e8d1423b3d97332a4d 
0b105cd6ecdfe5724c7db52135aa47ef 
7024ea8285cee098829ac8f2b1de4455 

Compromised certificates 

Samples 

Drivers 

Company 

Serial number 

ESTsoft Corp 

Kog Co., Ltd. 

LivePlex Corp 

MGAME Corp 

30 d3 fe 26 59 1d 8e ac 8c 30 66 7a c4 99 9b d7 

66 e3 f0 b4 45 9f 15 ac 7f 2a 2b 44 99 0d d7 09 

1c aa 0d 0d ad f3 2a 24 04 a7 51 95 ae 47 82 0a 

4e eb 08 05 55 f1 ab f7 09 bb a9 ca e3 2f 13 cd 

Rosso Index KK 

01 00 00 00 00 01 29 7d ba 69 dd 

Sesisoft 

Wemade 

YNK Japan 

61 3e 2f a1 4e 32 3c 69 ee 3e 72 0c 27 af e4 ce 

61 00 39 d6 34 9e e5 31 e4 ca a3 a6 5d 10 0c 7d 

67 24 34 0d db c7 25 2f 7f b7 14 b8 12 a5 c0 4d 

Guangzhou YuanLuo 

0b 72 79 06 8b eb 15 ff e8 06 0d 2c 56 15 3c 35 

Fantasy Technology Corp 

75 82 f3 34 85 aa 26 4d e0 3b 2b df 74 e0 bf 32 

Neowiz 

5c 2f 97 a3 1a bc 32 b0 8c ac 01 00 59 8f 32 f6 

 
PAGE 85|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

Winnti 1.0 

 

 

Winnti C&Cs 

newpic.dyndns.tv 
update.ddns.net 
nd.jcrsoft.com 
cc.nexoncorp.us 
98.126.36.202 
kr.zzsoft.info 
as.cjinternet.us 
ca.zzsoft.info 
sn.jcrsoft.com 
lp.apanku.com 
sshd.8866.org 
ftpd.6600.org 
tcpiah.googleclick.net 
rss.6600.org 
lp.zzsoft.info 
lp.gasoft.us 
eya.jcrsoft.com 
ftpd.9966.org 
kr.xxoo.co 
wi.gcgame.info 
tcp.nhntech.com 
ka.jcrsoft.com 
my.zzsoft.info 
jp.jcrsoft.com 
su.cjinternet.us 
vn.gcgame.info 
ap.nhntech.com 
ru.gcgame.info 
kr.jcrsoft.com 
wm.ibm-support.net 
fs.nhntech.com 
docs.nhnclass.com 
rh.jcrsoft.com 
wm.nhntech.com 
wm.myxxoo.com 
ka.zzsoft.info 
ad.jcrsoft.com 
my.gasoft.us 

 

 
PAGE 86|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

Winnti, all, unsorted 

 

 

gunz.gcgame.info 
dell-support.org 
t3.jcrsoft.com 
kr.hja63.com 
dbo.gcgame.info 
2m.reegame.net 
ns1.msftncsl.com 
update.reegame.net 
pop.hja63.com 
imap.gasoft.us 
dns.naverpulic.com 
pda.zzsoft.info 
pop.cjinternet.us 
bar.gasoft.us 
hja63.com 
god.zzsoft.info 
goqc.xxoo.co 
apps.mynetav.net 
ns3.nhnclass.com 
tug.mynetav.net 
vip-webmail.com 
mail.7niu.com 
game.joymax.in 
tho.hja63.com 
zb.mynetav.net 
vtc.gasoft.us 
tv3.mynetav.net 
hk.hja63.com 
ad.gasoft.us 
ns5.msftncsl.com 
ftp.zzsoft.info 
sm.gcgame.info 
eudb.reegame.net 
tech.ibm-support.net 
gm.gcgame.info 
winlogon.net 
iyy.conimes.com 
ru.gcgame.info 
oa.nexoncorp.us 
cjinternet.us 
wm.ibm-support.net 
hp-supports.com 
pass1.hangame.co.uk 
mail.cjinternet.us 
tt.xxoo.co 
e.jcrsoft.com 
gamenow.8800.org 
googlefiles.net 
ns4.msftncsl.com 

 
PAGE 87|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

gf.jcrsoft.com 
sg.xxoo.co 
ns3.nhnclub.com 
wog.zzsoft.info 
ssl.msftncsl.com 
ns7.msftncsl.com 
udp.nhntech.com 
ad.jcrsoft.com 
ns6.msftncsl.com 
ibm-support.net 
gh.zzsoft.info 
kerberos.dnsalias.com 
ns1.nhnclub.com 
imap.zzsoft.info 
gongyi.co 
jcrsoft.com 
uni.vip-webmail.com 
smtp.jcrsoft.com 
cc.nexoncorp.us 
imm.conimes.com 
mail.hja63.com 
pass2.googletrait.com 
club.cjinternet.us 
mail.nexoncorp.us 
as.cjinternet.us 
service.dell-support.org 
service.googlefiles.net 
ftp.nexoncorp.us 
e.gcgame.info 
hansoft.sunsb.net 
www.jcrsoft.com 
ftpd.6600.org 
sshd.8866.org 
cpu.4pu.com 
nx2.joymax.in 
av.gcgame.info 
dl-adobe.com 
cj.jcrsoft.com 
ro.myxxoo.com 
rh.gcgame.info 
cc.xxoo.co 
swordwind.net 
lp.xxoo.co 
brqc.xxoo.co 
ava.apanku.com 
wi.gcgame.info 
zm.gasoft.us 
as.xxoo.co 
gh.gasoft.us 
baesystems.conimes.com 
ns2.nhnclub.com 

 
PAGE 88|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

intercpu.com 
e.hja63.com 
pda.gasoft.us 
wsafelogin.com 
mail.nexongame.net 
smtp.cjinternet.us 
wm.nhntech.com 
www.gcgame.info 
ix.xxoo.co 
support.dell-support.org 
han.zzsoft.info 
imap.hja63.com 
nhntech.com 
qc.xxoo.co 
ip.xxoo.co 
sl.myxxoo.com 
mail.joymax.in 
help.googleclick.net 
www.nexoncorp.us 
conimes.com 
usa.xxoo.co 
my.reegame.net 
login.joymax.in 
hsb.mynetav.net 
docs.naverpulic.com 
fax.nexoncorp.us 
mail.jcrsoft.com 
guys.mynetav.net 
google.x3322.org 
jc.nhntech.com 
roqc.xxoo.co 
ws.gcgame.info 
xss.gongyi.co 
new.java-ssl.com 
ava.zzsoft.info 
eya.jcrsoft.com 
gn.xxoo.co 
crl.nhntech.com 
tah.xxoo.co 
dns.nhnclass.com 
zzsoft.info 
nx.xxoo.co 
ns2.naverpulic.com 
pop.zzsoft.info 
on.xxoo.co 
pwd.nhntech.com 
ftp.gcgame.info 
nx2.hangame.co.uk 
he.xxoo.co 
hk.zzsoft.info 
nhnclass.com 

 
PAGE 89|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

nexoncorp.us 
w.gasoft.us 
kr-mail.com 
ns1.nhnclass.com 
smtp.nexoncorp.us 
xv.apanku.com 
imap.nexoncorp.us 
stmp.msftncsl.com 
nx3.hangame.co.uk 
msftncsl.com 
soft.hja63.com 
bcc.hja63.com 
wm.myxxoo.com 
ns3.msftncsl.com 
us.msftncsl.com 
dns--google.com 
t3.myxxoo.com 
au.msftncsl.com 
support.nexononline.com 
sg.java-ssl.com 
l53.xxoo.co 
udp.myxxoo.com 
q.gasoft.us 
nx2.interdriver.net 
a.gcgame.info 
mg.zzsoft.info 
jp.xxoo.co 
ros.zzsoft.info 
x64.reegame.net 
versiontt.no-ip.org 
imap.cjinternet.us 
rf.gcgame.info 
ca.zzsoft.info 
pda.hja63.com 
tw.java-ssl.com 
java-ssl.com 
sn.jcrsoft.com 
service.interdriver.net 
db.nexongame.net 
id.java-ssl.com 
perl.mynetav.net 
osk.jcrsoft.com 
mini.googletrait.com 
mail.gcgame.info 
nc.feelids.com 
tcpiah.googleclick.net 
googleclick.net 
pop.hangame.co.uk 
www.gasoft.us 
nxeu.jcrsoft.com 
eya.zzsoft.info 

 
PAGE 90|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

sellsads.sells-it.net 
wapqq.3322.org 
kr.reegame.net 
nt.nexoncorp.us 
tcp.nhntech.com 
www.hja63.com 
aion.reegame.net 
su.cjinternet.us 
get.java-ssl.com 
eudb.nexongame.net 
nsqc.xxoo.co 
mail.gasoft.us 
kr.jcrsoft.com 
ads01.mynetav.net 
gm.gasoft.us 
a1.reegame.net 
smtp.gcgame.info 
pda.jcrsoft.com 
kor.xxoo.co 
ns9.msftncsl.com 
nx.jcrsoft.com 
nexon.hangame.co.uk 
smtp.gasoft.us 
ns2.java-ssl.com 
alta.apanku.com 
nexon.joymax.in 
my.gasoft.us 
dns2.msftncsl.com 
ckts.mynetav.net 
pass1.googletrait.com 
dns.nhnclub.com 
kr.zzsoft.info 
mir.reegame.net 
jrun.hja63.com 
wm.googleclick.net 
bot.dongevil.info 
mail.zzsoft.info 
nexononline.com 
tv.mynetav.net 
e.gasoft.us 
xy.hja63.com 
www.apanku.com 
usa.nexongame.net 
ftp.gasoft.us 
ogp.reegame.net 
kog.jcrsoft.com 
www.joymax.in 
br.xxoo.co 
ftp.cjinternet.us 
qc.zzsoft.info 
pay.gcgame.info 

 
PAGE 91|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

hangame.co.uk 
test.reegame.net 
gs.xxoo.co 
xx.hja63.com 
ap.myxxoo.com 
cg.apanku.com 
ns1.naverpulic.com 
ree.reegame.net 
jp.jcrsoft.com 
interdriver.net 
ns1.java-ssl.com 
www.googletrait.com 
www.zzsoft.info 
qs.nexongame.net 
nx3.joymax.in 
a1.nexongame.net 
wi.zzsoft.info 
mx.hja63.com 
ga.nhntech.com 
nx.cjinternet.us 
ftp.jcrsoft.com 
fm.hja63.com 
lftv.mynetav.net 
e.zzsoft.info 
udp.ibm-support.net 
nx3.intercpu.com 
wh.jcrsoft.com 
zz.xxoo.co 
shoes.sellClassics.com 
ar.apanku.com 
ka.zzsoft.info 
jjevil.com 
nexongame.net 
est.gcgame.info 
imc.zzsoft.info 
newpic.dyndns.tv 
mini.reegame.net 
update.ddns.net 
js.nexoncorp.us 
nd.jcrsoft.com 
ed.xxoo.co 
also.msftncsl.com 
support.interdriver.net 
ru.cjinternet.us 
smtp.zzsoft.info 
pda.gcgame.info 
th.xxoo.co 
nhnclub.com 
www.cjinternet.us 
ssh.joymax.in 
tvads01.dyndns.tv 

 
PAGE 92|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

pp.ibm-support.net 
blog.mynetav.net 
ijj.conimes.com 
tank.hja63.com 
lp.gasoft.us 
nx3.googlefiles.net 
pass1.nexongame.net 
gcqc.xxoo.co 
br.reegame.net 
ftpd.9966.org 
kr.xxoo.co 
offices.dyndns-office.com 
hansoft.does-it.net 
gasoft.us 
docs.nhnclub.com 
sf.cjinternet.us 
pass2.nexongame.net 
updata-microsoft.com 
ka.jcrsoft.com 
us.xxoo.co 
myav.mynetav.net 
w53.myxxoo.com 
isatap.dyndns.org 
tt.conimes.com 
vn.gcgame.info 
ap.nhntech.com 
bot.jgame.in 
l.xxoo.co 
ftp.hja63.com 
mail.msftncsl.com 
dns01.dyndns-work.com 
service.hp-supports.com 
ns2.nhnclass.com 
fax.cjinternet.us 
nx2.intercpu.com 
windows.doomdns.com 
btg.mynetav.net 
xxoo.co 
mynetav.net 
mini.msftncsl.com 
pass2.hangame.co.uk 
webadmin.dnsdojo.net 
imap.gcgame.info 
joymax.in 
udp.jjevil.com 
www.reegame.net 
myxxoo.com 
iss.conimes.com 
ads01.dyndns-web.com 
www.mynetav.net 
dns.msftncsl.com 

 
PAGE 93|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

pop.jcrsoft.com 
ball.reegame.net 
lyto.zzsoft.info 
rw.nhntech.com 
els.jcrsoft.com 
a1.googletrait.com 
googletrait.com 
w80.xxoo.co 
scvhosts.com 
nexon.nexongame.net 
pic.4pu.com 
q.gcgame.info 
dbo.jcrsoft.com 
ns2.msftncsl.com 
ynk.xxoo.co 
tw.hja63.com 
pass1.reegame.net 
my.zzsoft.info 
www2.mynetav.net 
www.nexongame.net 
id.naverpulic.com 
roap.myxxoo.com 
openhost.webhop.net 
mir2.nexongame.net 
imap.jcrsoft.com 
pop.gasoft.us 
bar.zzsoft.info 
game.nexongame.net 
fs.nhntech.com 
osk.zzsoft.info 
docs.nhnclass.com 
t3.nhntech.com 
ahn.gasoft.us 
officess.dyndns-office.com 
new.nexoncorp.us 
dbo.zzsoft.info 
w.zzsoft.info 
lp.gcgame.info 
ro.hja63.com 
gcgame.info 
xl.apanku.com 
web-games.us 
sl.xxoo.co 
login.hangame.co.uk 
ro.xxoo.co 
dbo.gasoft.us 
moon.reegame.net 
egi.mynetav.net 
vn.jcrsoft.com 
ftp.mynetav.net 
us.nhntech.com 

 
PAGE 94|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

 

 

masternow.webhop.net 
file.googlefiles.net 
holleword.3322.org 
est.zzsoft.info 
apanku.com 
help.ibm-support.net 
tw.reegame.net 
est.gasoft.us 
mg.jcrsoft.com 
lp.apanku.com 
smtp.hja63.com 
xnews.myPicture.info 
lp.zzsoft.info 
nx3.interdriver.net 
rss.6600.org 
fn.hja63.com 
usp.xxoo.co 
ads01.dyndns-pics.com 
oky.mynetav.net 
pop.nexoncorp.us 
naverpulic.com 
pop.gcgame.info 
ap.googleclick.net 
haj.mynetav.net 
ac.xxoo.co 
mini.nexongame.net 
udp.googleclick.net 
nd.xxoo.co 
new.myxxoo.com 
rh.jcrsoft.com 
wm.xxoo.co 
dns.java-ssl.com 
wyqc.xxoo.co 
q.zzsoft.info 
pass1.joymax.in 
item.ItemDB.com 
reegame.net 
mailes.dyndns-mail.com 
nd.gasoft.us 
a.zzsoft.info 
w53.xxoo.co 

 

 

 
PAGE 95|  “Winnti” | More than just a game 

 

