Scanbox: A Reconnaissance Framework Used with Watering Hole
Attacks

A few days ago we detected a watering hole campaign in a website owned by one big industrial company.

The website is related to software used for simulation and system engineering in a wide range of
industries, including automotive, aerospace, and manufacturing.

The attackers were able to compromise the website and include code that loaded a malicious Javascript
file from a remote server. This Javascript file is a framework for reconnaissance that the attackers call
"Scanbox" and includes some of the techniques we described in a previous blog post: Attackers abusing
Internet Explorer to enumerate software and detect security products  

The Scanbox framework first configures the remote C&C server that it will use and collects a small amount
of information about the victim that is visiting the compromised website including:

Referer
User-Agent
Location
Cookie
Title (To identify specific content that the victim is visiting)
Domain
Charset
Screen width and height
Operating System
Language

Resulting in something like this:

Before sending the information to the C&C server, Scanbox encodes and encrypts the data with the
following function:

Producing the following request:

If we decrypt the data it translates to:

After the first request, the framework contains several plugins to extract different information from the
victim.

Pluginid 1: Enumerates software installed in the system using the technique we explained before that
affects Internet Explorer. It also checks if the system is running different versions of EMET (Enhanced
Mitigation Experience Toolkit):

Producing the list of security software on the target

Pluginid 2: Enumerates Adobe Flash versions

Pluginid 5: Enumerates Microsoft Office versions

Pluginid 6: Enumerates Acrobat Reader versions

Pluginid 8: Enumerates Java versions

Pluginid 21: Implements a “keylogger” functionality trough Javascript that logs all the keystrokes the
victim is typing inside the compromised website.

While the user is browsing the compromised website, all keystrokes are being recorded and sent to the
C&C periodically. It will also send keystrokes when the user submits web forms that can potentially
include passwords and other sensitive data.

As we have seen, this is a very powerful framework that gives attackers a lot of insight into the potential
targets that will help them launching future attacks against them.

We have also seen several Metasploit-produced exploits that target different versions of Java in the same
IP address that hosts the Scanbox framework (122.10.9[.]109).

We recommend you look for this type of activity against the following machines in your network:

mail[.]webmailgoogle.com
js[.]webmailgoogle.com
122[.]10.9.109

