BLACKENERGY & QUEDAGH 

The convergence of crimeware  

and APT attacks

TLP: WHITE

CONTENTS
Introduction 
Attack overview 
Infection vectors 
Target details 
2008 cyberattacks on Georgia? 
Ukraine-related proxies 
Timeline 
Technical details 
UAC bypass during installation 
Driver signing policy bypass 
Hijacking existing drivers 
Driver component 
Main DLL component 
BlackEnergy 3  
Information-stealing plugin 
Network traffic 
Conclusions 
Appendix A | Samples 

2
2
3
4
4
4
6
8
8
8
9
9
10
10
11
12
13
14

BlackEnergy is a toolkit that has been used for years by various 
criminal outfits. In the summer of 2014, we noted that certain 
samples of BlackEnergy malware began targeting Ukranian 
government organizations for information harvesting. These 
samples were identified as being the work of one group, 
referred to in this document as “Quedagh”, which has a history 
of targeting political organizations. 

The Quedagh-related customizations to the BlackEnergy 
malware include support for proxy servers and use of 
techniques to bypass User Account Control and driver 
signing features in 64-bit Windows systems. While monitoring 
BlackEnergy samples, we also uncovered a new variant used by 
this group. We named this new variant BlackEnergy 3.

The use of BlackEnergy for a politically-oriented attack is an 
intriguing convergence of criminal activity and espionage. As 
the kit is being used by multiple groups, it provides a greater 
measure of plausible deniability than is afforded by a custom-
made piece of code.

F-SECURE LABS 
SECURITY RESPONSE
Malware Analysis 
Whitepaper

2

INTRODUCTION

BlackEnergy is a popular crimeware (that is, malware 
designed to automate criminal activities) that is sold in the 
Russian cyber underground and dates back to as early as 
2007. Originally, it was designed as a toolkit for creating 
botnets for use in conducting  Distributed Denial of Service  
(DDoS) attacks. Over time, the malware has evolved to 
support different plugins, which are used to extend its 
capabilities to provide necessary functions, depending on 
the purpose of an attack.

Given the nature of its toolkit, BlackEnergy has 
unsurprisingly been used by different gangs for different 
purposes; some use it for sending spam, others for stealing 
banking credentials. The most notorious use may be when 
it was used to conduct cyberattacks against Georgia during 
the Russo-Georgian confrontation in 2008.  
 
In the summer of 2014, BlackEnergy caught our attention 
when we noticed that samples of it were now tailored to 

target Ukrainian government institutions. Though it may 
be unrelated, it is interesting to note that this change 
conveniently coincides with the on-going crisis in that 
country. Related or not, one thing is certain: the actor(s) 
using these customized BlackEnergy malware are intent 
on stealing information from the targets. The use of this 
crimeware in what constitutes as an advance persistent 
threat (APT) attack is interesting. In ‘black operations’ 
(black ops), an important criteria is that the attack should 
not be attributable - and what provides better plausible 
deniability than crimeware known to be used by multiple 
parties?

In this paper we focus only on BlackEnergy samples  
known to be used specifically by the actors we identify 
as Quedagh, who seem to have a particular interest in 
political targets. Special focus will be on the samples 
that were used in targeted attacks against Ukrainian 
government organizations earlier this year.

ATTACK OVERVIEW

At the time of writing, we have little information on how 
exactly victims are receiving the BlackEnergy malware 
being pushed by the Quedagh gang. An educated guess 
is that they are receiving the malware via targeted emails 
containing malicious attachments. Meanwhile, the 
following infection and technical details are based on 
samples gathered after searching through F-Secure Labs’ 
collection of all BlackEnergy samples and identifying 
those with Quedagh characteristics.

The BlackEnergy toolkit comes with a builder application 
which is used to generate the clients that the attacker(s) 
use to infect victim machines. The toolkit also comes 
with server-side scripts, which the attackers set up in 
the command and control (C&C) server. The scripts also 
provide an interface where an attacker can control his 
bots. The simplicity and convenience provided by the 
toolkit means that anyone who has access to the kit can 
build his own botnet without any skills required. 

 Figure 1: BlackEnergy Builder from 2007

3

The original BlackEnergy toolkit first emerged in 2007 and 
is referred to in this paper as BlackEnergy 1. A later variant 
of the toolkit (BlackEnergy 2) was released in 2010. We also 
encountered a previously unseen variant, which had been 
rewritten and uses a different format for its configuration. 
It also no longer uses a driver component. We dubbed this 
new variant BlackEnergy 3. 

Some earlier installer variants, then named regedt32.
exe, were distributed by documents exploiting software 
vulnerabilities, one of which was CVE-2010-3333. These 
documents drop and execute the installer, then open a 
decoy document. It is reasonable to assume that a similar 
approach has been used to deliver the more recent 
installer variants.

INFECTION VECTORS
Most of the recent BlackEnergy installers collected are 
named msiexec.exe. We believe they are either dropped 
by another executable that uses social engineering tricks 
to mislead the user into executing the installer, or by 
documents containing exploits that silently perform the 
installation.

We found at least 2 trojanized legitimate applications that 
execute the installer (in addition to their legitimate tasks). 
Trojanization is an effective infection method, as most 
users have no way of observing that a malicious component 
is being installed in tandem with a legitimate program.

The installer filename of BlackEnergy 3 is still msiexec.exe. 
However, it is delivered and executed by a dropper which 
opens a decoy document in the foreground. We also 
encountered a standalone, non-persistent sample that 
pretends to be Adobe Flash Player Installer. It does not use 
any decoy document or application and does not run after 
reboot.

The overview below summarizes the various infection 
vectors used by the Quedagh gang to deliver BlackEnergy 
crimeware to the designated targets.

OVERVIEW OF INFECTION VECTORS USED AGAINST UKRAINIAN TARGETS

msiexec.exe
INSTALLER

PERSISTENT 
component

msiexec.exe
INSTALLER

PERSISTENT 
component

msiexec.exe
INSTALLER

PERSISTENT 
component

 

APP

Trojanized 

app

Exploit 
document

Dropper 
malware

 Fake 
installer

NON-PERSISTENT 
component

Image 2:  

Decoy document circa 2012

Image 3:  

Strings from a sample circa 2012

4

TARGET DETAILS
From the very earliest variants we were able to attribute 
to Quedagh, we have noticed that their targets have been 
political in nature. Apart from other indicators, we can 
deduce the nature of the target based on the content of 
social engineering tactics used to distribute the installers. 
For example, one decoy dropped from a sample dating to 
2012 (image 2) seems to be targeting European audiences 
and discusses a political/economic situation. Strings found 
in another sample from 2012 (image 3) again indicate 
a political motivation behind the attack. Most decoys 
used content taken from news sites; we noted one decoy 
dropped by an exploit document was created using the 
Russian version of Office (image 4).

The latest variant of the dropper pretends to be a 
document file with a Ukrainian filename (image 5).  
The choice of language for the filename again may tie  
in or reference the current political crisis in that country. 
The filename itself means ‘password list’ in English.

2008 CYBERATTACKS ON GEORGIA?
During our investigation, we found interesting details 
that lead us to suspect that Quedagh might have been 
involved in the cyberattacks launched against Georgia 
during the 2008 Russo-Georgian confrontation. While the 
details identified are suggestive, they are not conclusive; 
they do however seem consistent with the group’s 
involvement in subsequent targeted attacks.

UKRAINE-RELATED PROXIES
While examining the samples collected during our 
BlackEnergy monitoring, we noticed that samples from 
this year had been updated to support the use of proxy 
servers while connecting to their C&C servers. This 
contrasts with earlier BlackEnergy 2 variants, which do 
not support proxy servers. In some network setups, a 
proxy server is needed to allow internal users to access 
the Internet [1]. BlackEnergy¹s use of a proxy server may 
indicate that the gang has prior knowledge of the target 
organization’s internal setup to note of this requirement.

For example, in one sample the configuration uses  
the proxy server associated with the Ukrainian Railway 
(image 6). The configuration from another sample 
also shows it using an internal proxy under the giknpc 
domain (image 7). The domain giknpc.com.ua in turn 
hosts 3 domains (image 8), one of which is for the city 
of Dnipropetrovsk (image 9), the fourth-largest city in 
Ukraine, located in the southeast. Based on the set proxy 
servers for the different samples, we concluded that the 
gang is targeting Ukrainian government organizations.

Decoy document created using a Russian version of Office

Image 4:  

5

2014 dropper sample disguised as a document. The filename means password list

Image 5:  

Configuration using Ukrainian Railway’s proxy

Image 6:  

Configuration using internal proxy under giknpc domain

Image 7:  

Image 8:  

Domains hosted on giknpc.com

Image 9:  

Dnipropetrovsk domain

6

TIMELINE
Although they may have started much earlier, the earliest 
BlackEnergy sample we could attribute to the Quedagh 
gang is from December 14, 2010.

Initially, the group seemed to prefer to use the filename of 
the Windows registry editor (regedt32.exe), presumably 
because the installer needs administrator rights to install 
its driver component and therefore would try to request 
for the highest available rights (image 10), if possible. As 
this triggers a notification message visible to the user, said 
user is more likely to grant permission if it appears to be 
the registry editor that is requesting for permission, since 
it is normal to run it with administrator rights. Experienced 
users though are less likely to be taken in, thereby 
decreasing the likelihood of a successful infection.

Starting April 2013, modified installers appeared showing 
that the Quedagh group found a way to bypass the default 
User Account Control (UAC) settings. With this change, 
the user’s permission is no longer need (image 11). At this 
point, the gang also began to use the Windows installer 
program filename msiexec.exe.

64-bit support
Within a month of Windows 8.1’s release, the gang  
had quickly added support for 64-bit systems, possibly 
anticipating that more of their target systems will be 
migrated to 64-bit systems. They also employ a neat 
trick to bypass the driver signing requirement on 64-
bit Windows systems. As a side note, this latest finding 
updates and supercedes previously published research 
related to BlackEnergy’s driver signing behavior [2]. 

However, this trick doesn’t work on Windows 8 and 
later systems. The driver also crashes occassionally. This 
could be the reason for the stand-alone non-persistent 
BlackEnergy variant.

BlackEnergy 3
We identified the new BlackEnergy 3 variant first by the 
change in its configuration, which differed from those 
of its two predecessors, 1 and 2 (images 12 to 14).  It also 
no longer uses a driver component [3].  Further technical 
details are documented on page 10 to 11.

Installer requesting highest available rights

Image 10:  

Installer execution privilege level amended

Image 11:  

TIMELINE OF BLACKENERGY & QUEDAGH HISTORY

BLACKENERGY Development

BlackEnergy 

1

BlackEnergy 

2

 Quedagh APT campaign

Dec 14

First installer  
(regedt32.exe)

CYBERATTACKS 

AGAINST 
GEORGIA 

May 12

BlackEnergy 

3

Apr 9

New UAC-
bypassing 
installer  

(msiexec.exe)

Nov 14
64-bit 

support for 
BlackEnergy 

2 driver

Some time 
after Dec 25
Targets 
Ukrainian 
entities

POLITICAL 
CRISIS IN 
UKAINE

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Image 12: BlackEnergy 1 configuration

Image 13: BlackEnergy 2 (aka BotnetKernel  or bkernel [4] ) configuration

Image 14: BlackEnergy 3 configuration

8

TECHNICAL DETAILS

UAC BYPASS DURING INSTALLATION
The malware will only attempt to infect a system if the 
current user is a member of the local administrator group. 
If not, it will re-launch itself as Administrator on Vista. 
This in effect will trigger a UAC prompt. On Windows 7 
and later however, the malware will attempt to bypass the 
default UAC settings. It exploits a backward-compatibility 
feature found in newer versions of Windows. BlackEnergy 
installers include a Shim Database, or a “fix”, instructing 
SndVol.exe to execute cmd.exe (image 15, below) instead 
in order to resolve the incompatibility. 

SndVol.exe is one of the Windows executables that will 
be automatically elevated upon execution because it 
is thought to be safe. What harm can a volume control 
cause? With the malicious “fix” installed however, 
executing SndVol.exe will execute the not-so-safe file 
cmd.exe instead, which can then be used to install the 
malware while in an elevated state.

DRIVER SIGNING POLICY BYPASS
The role of the installer is to set up the malware’s 
persistent component, which is the driver component. 
On 64-bit Windows systems, Microsoft has enforced a 
policy that requires all drivers to be signed as a security 
precaution. Signing provides a way to identify a driver to 
its author, effectively reducing the number of malware 
developers willing to take the risk. To allow developers to 
test their drivers during development, Microsoft provides 
a TESTSIGNING boot configuration option; while in this 
mode, a watermark is displayed on the screen to make it 
obvious to users and to prevent malware from exploiting 
this option.

BlackEnergy enables the TESTSIGNING option to load its 
driver component; to hide this change from the user, the 
malware removes the watermark by removing the relevant 
strings in the user32.dll.mui of the system. In Windows 
8 and up however, the strings are no longer stored in 
user32.dll.mui, so the trick will not work. This may be one 
of the reasons for the existence of a standalone non-
persistent BlackEnergy variant. The malware does not 
infect 64-bit Windows systems that are older than Vista.

Image 15: Malicious fix to redirect SndVol.exe to cmd.exe. Inset: Test Mode watermark

DIAGRAM 1: INSTALLATION FLOW

DIAGRAM 2: ROLE OF DRIVER COMPONENT

9

Need rights?

Bypass UAC

Run as 

administrator

Additional steps 
on 64-bit systems

Enable 

TESTSIGNING

Remove Test 

Mode watermark

Locate inactive 

drivers

Replace with 

driver component

HIJACKING EXISTING DRIVERS
The installer will try to locate an existing driver service 
that is inactive. The service found will usually be a 
legitimate one that is disabled because it is no longer 
used or because it is set to start only on demand. The 
installer will drop the driver component using the 
corresponding path of the service.  It will overwrite the 
existing driver if necessary. The hijacked service is then 
set to start automatically. This is how the malware is able 
to survive after a reboot. By doing this, the gang may be 
hoping that their malicious driver will be overlooked by 
administrators or investigators who are so used to seeing 
those legitimate services.

Temporary 
component

INSTALLER

Persistent 
component

Installs

DRIVER

Injects

svchost.exe

MAIN DLL

TABLE 1: IOCTL BUFFER COMMAND CODES

Code

Function

6

9

10

Loads a driver into memory

Does not do anything; just returns true. 
Previously contained an uninstall routine.

Returns the registry path and driver file path

DRIVER COMPONENT
The only component that will remain permanently on the 
infected system will be the driver component. The driver 
component used by the gang is a stripped down version 
of the BlackEnergy 2 driver. 

The sole purpose of this driver component is to inject 
the main DLL component into svchost.exe. Interestingly, 
it does not contain the rootkit functionalities for hiding 
processes, files and registry objects that is found in the 
usual BlackEnergy 2 drivers. The gang may have opted for 
a ‘hide in plain sight’ approach to evade detections from 
rootkit scanners, such as GMER and RootkitRevealer, that 
checks for system anomalies.

The driver component provides a IOCTL interface to 
communicate with the main DLL component. Table 1 
(above) summarizes the command codes that can be 
passed to the IOCTL buffer. The 32-bit version contains 
additional, incomplete routines for hiding processes via 
direct kernel object manipulation (DKOM) and managing 
BlackEnergy 2 rootkit rules in memory [2]. 

10

TABLE 2: TYPICAL BLACKENERGY DRIVER COMPONENT 

VERSUS  QUEDAGH’S CUSTOM COMPONENT

Launch Point

Role

Versions

Typical BlackEnergy 2
Creates a new service based on either 
a hardcoded or randomly generated 
name (depending on the installer)

Hides processes, files and registry 
objects; Inject main DLL to svchost.exe

32-bit driver component that contains 
complete routines in its IOCTL 
interface

Quedagh BlackEnergy 2
Hijacks an existing legitimate service

Injects main DLL to svchost.exe

32-bit driver component with a lot of remnant routines in  
its IOCTL interface, only a few of which make sense. 

After Nov 11, 2013, the 64-bit driver component is available  
and provides limited functionalities in IOCTL interface (only 
those equivalent working routines found in the 32-bit versions)

TABLE 3: COMMANDS SUPPORTED BY VARIANTS 

TARGETED AT UKRAINIAN ENTITIES

Command

Description

rexec

lexec

die

getpl

turnoff

chprt

Download and execute a binary

Execute a shell command

Uninstall

Load a plugin

Quit (will start again after reboot)

Add / remove / set active command and control server

BlackEnergy 2 was very well documented by Dell 
SecureWorks [5] in 2010. Table 2 (above) summarizes 
the differences between the driver component used by 
Quedagh compared to the typical BlackEnergy 2.

MAIN DLL COMPONENT
The core functionality of BlackEnergy 2 is found in the  
main DLL component. This component is embedded inside 
the driver component and is not found in the file system; 
this is to reduce the infection footprint on the system.

The main DLL provides a robust framework for attackers 
to maintain a botnet that is not tied to any specific 
functionality. The malware is designed to be used by 
loading customized plugins depending on the purpose 
of the botmaster. It is mainly a framework for plugins 
to communicate with a central command and control. 
Otherwise, the main DLL only provides a minimal set of 
commands. Table 3 (above) summarizes the commands 
supported by the variants used in the attack against 
Ukrainian government organizations.

In BlackEnergy 2, the main DLL component communicates 
with its plugins via a defined set of API calls. It exports 
a number of function calls, which can be used by the 
plugins. On the other hand, plugins are required to export 
2 functions to work. We highly recommend the research 
of Dell SecureWorks for those looking for more details 
regarding the BlackEnergy 2 plugin framework.

BLACKENERGY 3 
In contrast to previous variants, BlackEnergy 3 uses a 
simpler installer component. It does not have a driver 
component and the installer drops the main DLL 
component directly to the local application data (non-
roaming) folder. The installer then creates a LNK file in the 
startup folder, using a filename generated based on the 
volume serial number as a launch point. The LNK file is a 
shortcut to execute the main DLL using rundll32.exe.

TABLE 4: X509_ASN FIELDS & EQUIVALENT 

BLACKENERGY 2 XML NODE

TABLE 5: BLACKENERGY 3 

COMMANDS

11

ID

BlackEnergy 2 
Node

Description

1

2

3

4

5

servers

plugins

cmds

build id

The command and control servers

Plugins to be loaded

Commands to be executed

Build ID

sleepfreq

Phone home interval

This variant uses a new configuration format. The 
configuration data is a series of X509_ASN encoded values 
and are accessed by an ID number. Table 4 summarizes 
the fields and their equivalent BlackEnergy 2 XML node, 
while table 5 lists the completely new set of commands 
used in this latest variant.  

BlackEnergy 3 also uses a different method of 
communication with its plugins, as it now communicates 
via RPC over the named-pipe protocol (ncacn_np).

INFORMATION-STEALING PLUGIN
Since the main DLL component offers little clue as to what 
the malware was used for, we need to look at the plugin to 
determine the objective of the gang. 

One particular plugin that was used in the campaign was 
called “si”, perhaps to mean ‘steal information’. The latest 
sample we found will attempt to gather the following 
information and send them to the C&C server:

•  System configuration information (gathered via 

systeminfo.exe)

•  Operating system version
•  Privileges
•  Current time
•  Up time
• 
Idle Time
•  Proxy
• 

Installed apps (gathered from uninstall program 
registry)

IP configurations (gathered via ipconfig.exe)

•  Process list (gathered via tasklist.exe)
• 
•  Network connections (gathered via netstat.exe)
•  Routing tables (gathered via route.exe)
•  Traceroute and Ping information to Google 

(gathered via tracert.exe and ping.exe)

•  Registered mail, browser, and instant messaging 

clients (gathered via client registry)

Command

Description

delete

ldplg

unlplg

update

dexec 

exec

updcfg

Uninstall

Load a plugin

Unload a plugin

Update main DLL

Download and execute an executable

Download and execute a binary

Update the configuration data

•  Account and password information from The 

Bat! email client (gathered from account.cfn and 
account.cfg)

•  Stored username and passwords in Mozilla 

password manager of the following applications 
(gathered from signons*.txt and signons.sqlite)
•  Thunderbird
•  Firefox
•  SeaMonkey
• 
IceDragon

•  Stored username and passwords in Google 
Chrome password manager of the following 
applications (gathered from “Login Data”)
•  Google Chrome
•  Chromium
•  Comodo Dragon
•  Xpom
•  Nichrome
•  QIP Surf
•  Torch
• 
•  Opera
•  Sleipnir

 YandexBrowser

•  Account and password information from Outlook 

• 

and Outlook Express
Internet Explorer version and stored username 
and passwords

•  Stored username and passwords in Windows 

Credential Store
•  Live
•  Remote Desktop
•  Other generic credentials (Microsoft_

WinInet_*)

The nature of the information being gathered seems to 
be generic rather than targeted. This may be because the 
malware has roots from crimeware. The information is still 
useful however as such data makes it easier for the gang 
to plan any further attacks on the same targets.

12

DIAGRAM 3: CONFIGURATION DATA HANDLING

2

HTTP POST

1

MAIN DLL

Config

3

Config

C&C 
SERVER

1

2

3

Main DLL process configuration data embedded 
in its body; will only process fields related to C&C 
communication. BlackEnergy 2 configuration may 
also contain initial commands to execute.

Main DLL reports to C&C.

Main DLL processes the configuration data 
returned by the C&C. This time, it processes 
fields related to plugins and commands.

TABLE 6: MAIN DLL’S ADDITIONAL COMMANDS 

DURING DOWNLOAD OF ADDITIONAL FILES

HTTP POST Field

Description of Values

getp

plv

getpd

The plugin name to be downloaded

Some variants specify the version of the plugin to be downloaded

The binary name to be downloaded

The response of the command and control server will 
be encrypted using the id field in the POST request as 
the key. After the response is decrypted, it will be in the 
form of the corresponding configuration data of the 
BlackEnergy sample; for example, BlackEnergy 2 samples 
expect the decrypted response to be a XML document, 
while BlackEnergy 3 samples expect the decrypted 
response to be a series X509_ASN encoded values. 

The decrypted response, which is equivalent to another 
configuration data, will be processed similar to the initial 
configuration data embedded in the main DLL; the only 
differences are the data fields that are processed. This 
cycle is illustrated in diagram 3 (above).

The main DLL also uses the fields listed in table 6 (above) 
when it needs to download additional files.

NETWORK TRAFFIC
BlackEnergy communicates with its C&C server via HTTP 
POST requests. For the BlackEnergy 2 samples used by the 
gang, the request contains the following fields:

id=[bot_id]&bid=[base64_encoded_build_

id]&dv=[x]&mv=[y]&dpv=[z]

Where:

•  bot_id is equivalent to the infected host name 

and the volume serial number following the 
format x[host_name]_[serial_no] (e.g. xJOE-
PC_484DA98A)

•  build_id is the string found in the build_id field in 

the sample’s configuration data

•  x, y, z are hardcoded values which varies among 

samples

The fields are almost the same for BlackEnergy 3 samples: 

id=[bot_id_sha1]&bid=[base64_encoded_build_

id]&nm=[x]&cn=[y]&num=[z]

The only major difference is that the id field contain just 
the hash instead of the actual string. The actual bot_id 
string in which the id hash is derived is also a bit different; 
it now uses the format [domain_sid]_[host_name]_
[serial_no].

13

CONCLUSIONS

BlackEnergy is a toolkit that has been used for years 
by various criminal outfits. In the summer of 2014, we 
noted that certain samples of BlackEnergy malware 
began targeting Ukranian government organizations for 
information harvesting. These samples were identified as 
being the work of one group, referred to in this document 
as “Quedagh”, which has a history of targeting political 
organizations. Though inconclusive, suggestive details 
indicate that BlackEnergy malware, possibly also from this 
gang, may also have been used in the Russo-Georgian 
confrontation in 2008.

The Quedagh-customizations to the BlackEnergy malware 
include support for proxy servers (which, in the samples 
examined are associated with Ukrainian entities) and 
use of techniques to bypass User Account Control and 
driver signing features in 64-bit Windows systems. While 
monitoring BlackEnergy samples, we also encountered a 
new variant, which we dub BlackEnergy 3, with a modified 
configuration, no driver component and a different 
installation procedure.

The use of BlackEnergy for a politically-oriented attack 
is an intriguing convergence of criminal activity and 
espionage. As the kit is being used by multiple groups, it 
provides a greater measure of plausible deniability than is 
afforded by a custom-made piece of code.

.REFERENCES
1.  Wikipedia; Proxy server; http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server#Cross-domain_resources 

2.  Broderick Aquilino; F-Secure Weblog; BlackEnergy Rootkit, Sort Of; 13 June 2014; 

http://www.f-secure.com/weblog/archives/00002715.html 

3.  Broderick Aquilino; F-Secure Weblog; Beware BlackEnergy If Involved In Europe/Ukraine Diplomacy; 30 June 2014;  

http://www.f-secure.com/weblog/archives/00002721.html

4.  Kafeine; Malware don’t need Coffee; BotnetKernel (MS:Win32/Phdet.S) an evolution of BlackEnergy ; 21 June 2014; 

http://malware.dontneedcoffee.com/2014/06/botnetkernel.html

5.  Joe Stewart; DELL SecureWorks; BlackEnergy Version 2 Analysis; 3 March 2010;  
http://www.secureworks.com/cyber-threat-intelligence/threats/blackenergy2/

14

APPENDIX A | SAMPLES

SHA1
26b9816b3f9e2f350cc92ef4c30a097c6fec7798 

bf9937489cb268f974d3527e877575b4fbb07cb0 

Description
Main reference for related BlackEnergy 2 32-bit driver and main 
DLL component analysis

Main reference for related BlackEnergy 2 64-bit driver (signed 
on 2013-12-25) and installer analysis. Basis for the start of the 
Ukrainian target.

78636f7bbd52ea80d79b4e2a7882403092bbb02d  Main reference for related BlackEnergy 3 analysis

bf9172e87e9264d1cddfc36cbaa74402bb405708 

Main reference for related si plugin analysis

441cfbaba1dfd58ce03792ef74d183529e8e0104 

Stand-alone non-persistent BlackEnergy 2 sample

f7d4aa90b76646f4a011585eb43b9d13c60f48eb 

Trojanized Juniper installer containing related BlackEnergy 2

8ccd2962bce8985d0794daed6e0bf73e5557cfe8 

Trojanized Adobe Bootstrapper containing related BlackEnergy 
2. This means that it is highly probable that there is a trojanized 
Adobe package out there.

d496f99f7e07d5cbbd177a9d43febe8fb87ebc3b 

Related RTF document containing exploit

cc71aa8f919911676fb5d775c81afc682e6e3dd3 

Related BlackEnergy 2 binary containing strings that are 
political in nature

abab02d663872bcdbe2e008441fcd7157c0eb52d 

Oldest (compiled on 2010-12-14) related BlackEnergy 2 installer 
that was found

e5c8c10b10ee288512d3a7c79ae1249b57857d23 

8743c8994cc1e8219697394b5cb494efa7dad796 

Oldest (compiled on 2013-04-09) related BlackEnergy 2 
installer that bypass UAC that was found

Oldest (signed on 2013-11-14) related BlackEnergy 2 64-bit 
driver that was found

285b3252a878d1c633ea988153bbc23c148dd630 

Oldest (compiled on 2014-05-12) related BlackEnergy 3 dropper 
that was found

15

PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

SWITCH  
FREEDOM

ON  

F-Secure is an online security and privacy company from Finland. We 
F-Secure is an online security and privacy company from Finland. 
offer millions of people around the globe the power to surf invisibly 
We offer millions of people around the globe the power to surf 

and store and share stuff, safe from online threats.

invisibly and store and share stuff, safe from online threats.

We are here to fight for digital freedom.

We are here to fight for digital freedom.
Join the movement and switch on freedom.

Join the movement and switch on freedom.

Founded in 1988, F-Secure is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd.

Founded in 1988, F-Secure is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd.

