"El Machete"
Introduction

Some time ago, a Kaspersky Lab customer in Latin America contacted us to say he had visited China and
suspected his machine was infected with an unknown, undetected malware. While assisting the customer,
we found a very interesting file in the system that is completely unrelated to China and contained no
Chinese coding traces. At first look, it pretends to be a Java related application but after a quick analysis, it
was obvious this was something more than just a simple Java file.  It was a targeted attack we are calling
"Machete".

What is "Machete"?

"Machete" is a targeted attack campaign with Spanish speaking roots. We believe this campaign started in
2010 and was renewed with an improved infrastructure in 2012. The operation may be still "active".

The malware is capable of the following cyber-espionage operations:

Logging keystrokes
Capturing audio from the computer's microphone
Capturing screenshots
Capturing geolocation data
Taking photos from the computer's web camera
Copying files to a remote server
Copying files to a special USB device if inserted
Hijjacking the clipboard and capturing information from the target machine

Targets of "Machete"

Most of the victims are located in, Venezuela, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Russia, Cuba, and Spain, among
others. In some cases, such as Russia, the target appears to be an embassy from one of the countries of
this list.

Targets include high-level profiles, including intelligence services, military, embassies and government
institutions.

How does "Machete" operate?

The malware is distributed via social engineering techniques, which includes spear-phishing emails and
infections via Web by a fake Blog website. We have found no evidence of of exploits targeting zero-day
vulnerabilities. Both the attackers and the victims appear to be Spanish-speaking.

During this investigation, we also discovered many other the files installing this cyber-espionage tool in
what appears to be a dedicated a spear phishing campaign. These files display a PowerPoint presentation
that installs the malware on the target system once the file is opened.  These are the names of the
PowerPoint attachments:

Hermosa XXX.pps.rar
Suntzu.rar
El arte de la guerra.rar
Hot brazilian XXX.rar

These files are in reality Nullsoft Installer self-extracting archives and have compilation dates going back
to 2008.

A consequence of the embedded  Python code inside the executables is that these installers include all the
necessary Python libraries as well as the PowerPoint file shown to the victim during the installation. The
result is extremely large files, over 3MB.

Here are some screnshots of the mentioned files:

A technical relevant fact about this campaign is the use of Python embedded into Windows executables of
the malware. This is very unusual and does not have any advantage for the attackers except ease of coding.
There is no multi-platform support as the code is heavily Windows-oriented (use of libraries). However,
we discovered several clues that the attackers prepared the infrastructure for Mac OS X and Unix victims
as well. In addition to Windows components, we also found a mobile (Android) component.

Both attackers and victims speak Spanish natively, as we see it consistently in the source code of the client
side and in the Python code.

Indicators of Compromise

Web infections

The following code snippets were found into the HTML of websites used to infect victims:

Note: Thanks to Tyler Hudak from Korelogic who noticed that the above HTML is copy pasted from
SET, The Social Engineering Toolkit.

Also the following link to one known infection artifact:

hxxp://name.domain.org/nickname/set/Signed_Update.jar

Domains

The following are domains found during the infection campaign. Any communication with them must be
considered extremely suspicious

java.serveblog.net 
agaliarept.com
frejabe.com
grannegral.com
plushbr.com
xmailliwx.com
blogwhereyou.com (sinkholed by Kaspersky Lab)
grannegral.com (sinkholed by Kaspersky Lab)

Infection artifacts

MD5
61d33dc5b257a18eb6514e473c1495fe
b5ada760476ba9a815ca56f12a11d557
d6c112d951cb48cab37e5d7ebed2420b
df2889df7ac209e7b696733aa6b52af5
e486eddffd13bed33e68d6d8d4052270
e9b2499b92279669a09fef798af7f45b
f7e23b876fc887052ac8e2558f0d6c38
b26d1aec219ce45b2e80769368310471

Filename
AwgXuBV31pGV.eXe
EL ARTE DE LA GUERRA.exe
Hermosa XXX.rar
Hermosa XXX.pps.rar
Hermosa XXX.pps.rar
Suntzu.rar
Hot Brazilian XXX.rar
Signed_Update.jar

Traces on infected machines

Creates the file Java Update.lnk pointing to appdata/Jre6/java.exe

Malware is installed in appdata/ MicroDes/

Running processes Creates Task Microsoft_up

Human part of "Machete"

Language

The first evidence is the language used, both for the victims and attackers, is Spanish.

The victims are all Spanish speaking according to the filenames of the stolen documents.

The language is also Spanish for the operators of the campaign, we can find all the server side code written
in this language: reportes, ingresar, peso, etc.

Conclusion

The "Machete" discovery shows there are many regional  players in the world of targeted attacks.
Unfortunately, such attacks became a part of the cyber arsenal of many nations located over the world. We
can be sure there are other parallel targeted attacks running now in Latin America and other regions.

Kaspersky Lab products detect malicious samples related to this targeted attack as Trojan-
Spy.Python.Ragua.

Note: A full analysis of the Machete attacks is available to the Kaspersky Intelligent
Services customers. Contact: intelreports@kaspersky.com

