 

 

 

DETECTION | PREVENTION | INTELLIGENCE 

Invincea White Paper 

“Micro-Targeted Malvertising via Real-time Ad Bidding” 
UPDATED: Includes New CryptoWall Malvertising Campaign 

 

Release date: October 27, 2014 

Invincea White Paper 

Invincea, Inc. 

 

Table of Contents 

Invincea White Paper 

1 

Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 2 

Introduction .......................................................................................................................... 3 

Operation DeathClick: Targeting the US Industrial Base ...................................................................4 

Summary for Incident at Fleaflicker.com .........................................................................................4 

Summary for Incident at Gpokr.com ...............................................................................................9 

Summary for Webmail.earthlink.net ............................................................................................. 11 

Summary of Incidents in Operation DeathClick  ............................................................................. 13 

Real-Time Bidding Networks: How it works .......................................................................... 13 

Malvertisers have Weaponized RTB  ............................................................................................. 16 

Competitive Service Offerings for RTB  .......................................................................................... 16 

Major Players in RTB .................................................................................................................... 20 

How Malvertisers Get $$ to Bid on RTB ......................................................................................... 21 

Where Malvertisers Host Exploits ................................................................................................. 22 

Real World Examples of RTB Malvertising Captured by Invincea .................................................... 23 

Ransomware Campaign via Malvertising ............................................................................. 26 

Analysis of CryptoWall Malvertising Infections .............................................................................. 27 

Central Hosting of Clean Content ......................................................................................... 30 

How to Protect Yourself  from Micro-targeted Malvertising ................................................. 31 

Release Notes ...................................................................................................................... 32 
 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Executive Summary 

Invincea White Paper 

2 

 
Most  targeted attacks  against  organizations originate as spear-phish campaigns or watering  hole style 
web  driveby  attacks.  Within  the  last  six  months,  Invincea  has  discovered  and  stopped  targeted 
malvertizing attacks against specific companies -- particularly those in the Defense Industrial Base. The 
combination  of  traditional  cyber  crime  methods  (malvertising)  with  targeted  attacks  against  Defense 
industrials for theft of IP represents another development in the on-going blending of techniques from 
cyber crime and advanced threat actors with nation state agendas.  We are tracking an on-going campaign 
against US Defense companies under the code name Operation DeathClick. 

Traditional  malvertizing  has  been  an  effective  but  indiscriminate  method  cyber  crime  gangs  use  to 
compromise endpoints to perpetrate ad fraud, identity fraud, and banking credential theft. In this new 
targeted variation of malvertizing, the perpetrators are attacking specific organizations by leveraging real-
time  ad  bidding  networks  and  micro-targeting  techniques  developed  over  the  last  decade  in  online 
advertising.  The  objective  of  these  micro-targeted  attacks  against  the  Defense  sector  is  likely  theft  of 
Intellectual  Property  more  than  ad  fraud  and  indicates  motive  and  sophistication  characteristic  of 
advanced threat actors. Since these attacks were blocked by Invincea prior to compromise of the machine 
or network, we cannot confirm the specific IP the perpetrators are after – only the Tactics, Techniques, 
and Protocols (TTPs) used which we describe herein, similar to methods used to provide backdoor access 
and command and control over compromised networks. 

While we discovered these attacks across multiple Defense companies, we expect it will not be long, if 
not already, before other highly targeted segments including Federal, Financial Services, Manufacturing, 
and HealthCare are victimized with the same micro-targeted malvertising. The campaign described here 
does not represent a single flaw, 0-day, or unpatched bug, but rather a significant development in the 
adversary’s capabilities and strategy to leverage legitimate online advertising platforms on well-known ad 
supported websites via a technique called Real-Time Ad Bidding. In other words, this problem will not be 
patched on Tuesday. 

UPDATE:  We  have  updated  this  document  to  include  a  new  section  on  a  campaign  of  distributing 
CryptoWall  ransomware  via  malvertising.  While  the  attack  vector  is  the  same,  we  believe  this  to  be 
motivated by cybercrime rather than theft of IP from Defense companies.  

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Introduction 

 

Invincea White Paper 

3 

Malvertising  has  seen  meteoric  rise  in  2014.    Threat  actors  create  a  corporate  front,  advertise  on 
commonly visited sites, then later switch out the landing pages for their ads to pages that host exploit 
kits, or  simply  create  a  temporary  redirection  from their  usual  content  to  the  malicious  landing  page.  
These exploit kits are hosted on compromised web servers across the world.  In other words, they leverage 
legitimate  ad-supported  popular  websites  together  with  compromised  websites  for  hosting  exploit 
landing  pages,  defeating  black-listing  techniques.  The  lifetime  of  these  ads  and  landing  pages  are 
measured in hours.  

In the campaign described here, Operation DeathClick,  traditional malvertising has been armed with a 
micro-targeting system using IP address ranges, geographically narrowed down to zip codes, and interests 
of  the  user  (recorded 
in  cookies)  to  target  specific  companies,  company  types,  and  user 
interests/preferences. They are employing the tactics of real-time ad bidding to guarantee malicious ad 
delivery  to intended targets  of the campaign  –  building on a decade of work in real-time  analytics for 
online ad placement, but for nefarious purposes. 

The threat actors redirect their ads for just minutes at a time and then abandon their exploit kit pages 
forever.  This means that list-based threat intelligence feeds are rendered ineffective.  The domains used 
do not appear in any proxy blacklist, and the malware droppers delivered by the exploit pages always 
employ different signatures, evading traditional network and endpoint detection technology. 

Ad  delivery  networks  today  are  not  incentivized  to  address  the  problem  in  a  credible manner  as  they 
derive revenue from the criminal enterprise, while not being held accountable. Turning a blind eye to the 
problem is rewarded economically. Meanwhile the perpetrators are able to use traditional malvertising 
and ad fraud bots to fund the criminal enterprise.  

Without cooperation of ad networks to vet the advertisers working through front companies, this attack 
vector will go unchecked.  And now, with the advent of real-time ad bidding, these threat actors have 
weaponized ad delivery networks to target victims based on: 

  User-Agent strings (versions of flash, OS, java and browser) 
 

Interest-related content (click bait articles, industry specific software or hardware, like medical 
supplies, radar mapping software, ammunition sales, stocks forums) 

  Advertising  Profiles  derived  from  cookies  (someone  with  specific  tastes,  may  shop  for  shoes, 

handbags, cars, luxury vacations) 

  Geographic  region  (malvertisers  can  target  specific  neighborhoods  or  states  via  geoip  direct 

advertising) 

  Specific corporate IP ranges (targeted malvertising can target the public IP space of your network 

or an Industrial Vertical) 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

4 

Real-time ad bidding allows advertisers, and by extension, adversaries, to micro-target ad delivery on an 
extremely  granular  basis.    For  example,  oppressive  regimes  trying  to  gather  intelligence  on  activist 
protests can deliver ads to people getting email from within a specific locality where they are protesting.  
Today, it is commonplace for micro-targeting techniques to be used as part of the toolset in legitimate 
online advertising. For instance, a defense contractor, trying to win a new omnibus contract, can deliver 
targeted ads to online news sites frequented by Government program personnel.  The latest software 
product release can be delivered to Windows users visiting PC Magazine’s website.  A local car dealership 
can sense when someone is in the market for a new car and can deliver advertising to those users, based 
solely on browsing history. 

Now advanced threat actors are able to target an organization directly via micro-targeted malvertising, 
based solely on their corporate network IP range.  Thus, it doesn’t matter where in the world you point 
your  web  browser  --  an  online  video  poker  room,  a  fantasy  football  club  homepage,  a Pakistani  news 
homepage, or even checking your own webmail at a trusted email provider.  Those ad windows can and 
are being used to deliver malware if the bidding price is right. 

Operation DeathClick: Targeting the US Industrial Base 
 
 
Recently, multiple US Defense/Aerospace contractors were targeted by a malvertising campaign. These 
contractors had deployed world-class enterprise security defense in depth approaches to protect their 
intellectual property.  They had next generation firewalls that relied on threat intelligence feeds to do 
auto-blocking of known malicious sites.  They had malware interception technology that relied on known 
bad hashes to prevent malicious downloads.  The multiple proxies in place subscribed to real time feeds 
of known bad URLs.  They deployed AV at the gateways and on the endpoints.   

But in a two week period, these organizations were hit with dozens of micro-targeted malvertising attacks, 
each of which would have provided a beachhead for the  threat actors from which to compromise the 
network,  if  successful.    In  each  instance,  the  attacks  were  carried  out  by  targeting  these  Defense 
contractors directly via real-time ad bidding.  Once targeted, an end user only needed to browse to any 
website, anywhere in the world, which contained a DoubleClick ad-partner embedded window.  Invincea 
stopped these attacks on the endpoints by containing the delivered exploits in secure virtual containers, 
while producing the forensics that led to this discovery.   

Next we go in some detail about example attacks perpetrated against the defense firms.   

It is important to note that the websites we show next that served up targeted malvertising were victims 
of malvertising campaigns with no knowledge of the malicious ads they were serving up. These malicious 
ads  were  served  up  by  3rd  party  networks,  who  are  unwittingly  sourcing  malicious  content.  As  we  will 
discuss later, the 3rd party ad networks themselves are falling victim to malicious content campaigns.  

Summary for Incident at Fleaflicker.com 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

5 

A user visited his online fantasy football league homepage at Fleaflicker.com.  As soon as the page loaded, 
a malicious ad delivered a backdoor Trojan via a Java-based exploit.     

Figure 1 shows a screenshot of the page that was visited.  You will notice the two inline ad placements 
for DoubleClick ad delivery.  The malware delivered came from a compromised Polish website, and 
would have installed a generic backdoor Trojan. 
 

Figure 1: Fleaflicker.com website 

 

Note the prominent ad placements by AdChoice, a DoubleClick affiliate. Figure 2 shows an event tree of 
the exploit and malware delivered from an ad by visiting Fleaflicker.com. 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

6 

Figure 2: Event tree for infection from Fleaflicker.com Incident 

 

The event tree in Figure 2 taken from Invincea’s Threat Management Console shows the exploited Java 
process dropped a file called fvJcrgR0.exe, and that it likely came from Pubmatic, an ad delivery network 
that allows for real time bidding to deliver ads.  In this instance, the Pubmatic server redirected to a Web 
server in Poland that dropped the malware.  The timeline below shows the exact times and URLs visited. 

Figure 3: Timeline for Fleaflicker.com Incident 

Note the number of re-directs from Fleaflicker.com to different outside properties in Figure 3. 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

7 

Figure 4: Process Launch for Malware fvJcrgR0.exe from Fleaflicker.com Incident 

Invincea Threat Management provides a quick way to search for an MD5 hash on third party sites (see 
Figure 4).  By clicking the VirusTotal link, the analyst will see the following VirusTotal report in Figure 5: 

 

Figure 5: VirusTotal Report for Malware fvJcrgR0.exe from Fleaflicker.com Incident 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

 

Invincea White Paper 

8 

From the VirusTotal report in Figure 5, you will see that this malware is a Trojan backdoor that would likely 
be used to download additional malware or to provide remote persistent access to the attacker. 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

 

Summary for Incident at Gpokr.com 
 

Invincea White Paper 

9 

An  employee  at  a  defense  contractor  visited  a  free  Texas  Poker  online  game.    The  Poker  site  had 
advertisements on the page, one of which launched a similar attack as seen in before on other websites 
visited by employees at this firm. 

 

 

Figure 6: Screenshot of Gpokr.com 

 

It should be noted that Gpokr.com no longer appears to be serving advertisements from their site.  At the 
time of the incident, as seen in the logs below, an ad window was previously present.  In the event tree 
shown in Figure 7, you will see that the winning bid redirected to a direct-to-IP site instead of a site via 
domain  name.    Also,  above  is  the  first  indication  of  specific  executable  DLL  files.    Searches  for  these 
filenames returned zero results on VirusTotal. 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

10 

Figure 7: Event Tree for Gpokr.com 

 

This event on September 14 (Figure 8) shows that delivery.first-impression.com redirected directly to an 
IP address, not a domain name to deliver its malicious payload.  Note the multiple DLL files written to disk 
and the spawning of rundll32.exe.  At this point, the Invincea-protected host recognized the unauthorized 
process and reverted itself to a clean state. 

Figure 8: Timeline View for Event 5 – Gpokr.com 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

11 

Summary for Webmail.earthlink.net 
 

In another incident an employee checked their online Earthlink account.  When they replied to an email, 
a new ad was loaded on a page that attempted to exploit Java.  This malvertising was from the same IP 
address seen in other incidents. 

 

Figure 9: Screenshot of Webmail.earthlink.net 

 
You will notice the inline advertisements on this page in Figure 9.  The event tree in Figure 10 notes that 
this was likely a spear-phish attack.  The timeline will show that when the user replied to an email, the ads 
on the Earthlink page refreshed, dropping the exploit code via Java. 
 
 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

 

Invincea White Paper 

12 

Figure 10: Event Tree for Incident 6 Webmail.earthlink.net 

 

 
 
Note in the timeline in Figure 11, how there was a 7 minute gap between the DoubleClick ad redirect and 
the  delivery.first-impression.com  ad.    This  is  an  indication  that  the  page  was  refreshed or  the  ad  was 
refreshed on the page.  The same exploit IP address from the Gpokr event is present.  This event is the 
oldest, happening on September 11. 
 

Figure 11: Timeline for Incident 6 Webmail.earthlink.net 

 

 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

13 

Summary of Incidents in Operation DeathClick  
 

The  three  examples  above  are  samples  of  the  more  than  two  dozen  micro-targeted  attacks  we  have 
witnessed and blocked as part of Operation DeathClick  since mid-September.  Defense Industrial Base 
customers witnessed micro-targeted malvertising at a rate six times that of comparable private sector 
companies with similar defense-in-depth capabilities.   

Real-Time Bidding Networks: How it works  

 
We observed in Operation DeathClick that real-time ad bidding networks are being used by criminal 
enterprise to target companies with malicious content in order to gain persistent remote access. In 
these third-party arrangements, the content is frequently not vetted because billions of impressions are 
rendered in real-time. Most of the content is legitimate ads. A small fraction is malicious content linking 
to landing pages that infect users. Real-time ad networks are being used, often unwittingly, and some 
have taken steps to try and combat malicious use of their networks. The Online Trust Alliance is one such 
industry group comprised of major software companies and ad networks working together to try and 
address this problem. Our goal in this paper is to shed light on the micro-targeting of companies by 
criminal enterprise employing real-time ad networks, and to aid the industry in collectively addressing 
this problem. 
 
Real-time ad bidding networks have evolved over the last ten years as a means of micro-targeting 
customers with advertising content they are more likely to click-on.  
 
From Wikipedia: 

Real-time bidding (RTB) refers to the means by which ad inventory is bought and sold on a per-
impression  basis,  via  programmatic  instantaneous  auction,  similar  to  financial markets.[1] With 
real-time bidding, advertising buyers bid on an impression and, if the bid is won, the buyer’s ad is 
instantly  displayed  on  the  publisher’s  site.[2] Real-time  bidding  lets  advertisers  manage  and 
optimize ads from multiple ad-networks by granting the user access to a multitude of different 

networks,  allowing  them  to  create  and  launch  advertising  campaigns,  prioritize  networks  and 

allocate advertising stock. 

Real-time bidding is a dynamic bidding process where each impression is bid for in (near) real time, 

against a static auction where the impressions are typically bundled in groups of 1,000.  

A typical transaction begins  with a user visiting a website. This triggers  a bid request that can 

include  various  pieces  of  data  such  as  the  user’s  demographic  information,  browsing  history, 

location, and the page being loaded.  The request  goes from the publisher to an ad exchange, 

which submits it and the accompanying data to multiple advertisers who automatically submit 

bids  in  real  time  to  place  their  ads.  Advertisers  bid  on  each  ad  impression  as  it  is  served.  The 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

14 

impression goes to the highest bidder and their ad is served on the page.This process is repeated 

for  every  ad  slot  on  the  page.  Real  time  bidding  transactions  typically  happen  within  100 

milliseconds from the moment the ad exchange received the request. 

The  bidding  happens  autonomously  and  advertisers  set  maximum  bids  and  budgets  for  an 

advertising  campaign.  The  criteria  for  bidding  on  particular  types  of  consumers  can  be  very 
complex, taking into account everything from very detailed behavioral profiles to conversion data.  

 

The  following  infographic  summarizes  how  advanced  adversaries  are  now  micro-targeting  companies 
using malvertising. 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

15 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

 

Invincea White Paper 

16 

Malvertisers have Weaponized RTB  
 
 
The marketplace and auction of ads sounds great for actual ads.  But what if the landing pages that are 
supposed  to  be  ads  are  actually  malicious  PHP  pages  with  embedded  malware?    The  bidding  and  ad 
placements work the same, but instead of seeing a flashy ad banner, the highest bidder for the placement 
serves malware.  The price to win the bid to push malvertising to any page you happen to visit ranges from 
45 to 75 cents per impression. 
 
A malicious advertiser on a network may serve crafted, seemingly normal ads, a majority of the time. In 
fact, the ads are often stolen copies from legitimate advertisers. This establishes the attacker’s legitimacy 
and trust on the ad network.  Of course with real-time ad bidding, he can simply offer up low bids and his 
content would consistently lose in the marketplace.   But it is very simple to replace the redirection code 
to switch from a legitimate ad banner to a drop site that hosts an exploit kit, typically based on Java, Flash, 
Silverlight, or all three.  Once the malvertiser detects that he has several infected hosts, he removes the 
redirection code and goes back to serving standard ad banners.  He then “burns” his temporary exploit kit 
drop site, moving his exploits to another location for a new campaign. 
 
This allows the malicious advertiser to perform hit and run attacks, infect whomever he wants at whatever 
time  he  wants,  and  maintain  his  presence  on  the  advertising  marketplace  without  drawing  undue 
attention to his activities. 
 
In the sections below, we will provide highlights of the RTB industry, its targeting capabilities, and show 
how malvertisers have been mis-appropriating RTB networks to deliver malware. 
 

Competitive Service Offerings for RTB  
 
 
The RTB ad networks provide significant micro-targeting capabilities that have long been used to serve 
legitimate content to users more likely to click on them. In the following, we describe these capabilities 
to show the state of the art in RTB network capabilities. The quoted material below are direct quotes from 
Real Time Bidding service providers linked.  Emphasis added by Invincea. 

Pubmatic: 

Audience Targeting: Bid on the audiences most valuable to you. Each impression in the PubMatic 
auction  can  be  enhanced  with  first-  and  third-party  data;  giving  buyers  targeting  capabilities 
across  display,  mobile,  tablet  and  video  inventory.  Media  buyers  can  also  cookie  sync  with 
publisher  audiences  to  incorporate  CRM,  retargeting  and  exclusion  strategies  in  their  digital 
advertising. 
 
Buyers have access to proprietary audience segments either directly through Private Marketplace 
deals or through the open market. With hundreds of parameters available to you, PubMatic has 
your best audiences waiting for you. 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

Invincea White Paper 

17 

With PubMatic, buyers are able to access pre-defined vertical or audience packages, seasonal 
packages,  publisher  and/or  site-specific  inventory  packages  as  well  as  pre-selected  publisher 
packages and pricing available in Private Marketplaces. 

 

 

First-Impression.com 

“First-Impression Buy-Side offers the granular targeting, tracking, and reporting needed to help 
our  clients  make  the  most  of  their  spend,  along  with  an  expert  support  team  to  advise  when 
needed.  By  leveraging  real  time  buying,  First-Impression  Buy-Side  gives  media  buyers  the  full 
control to maximize the value of an impression.” 

 
Could  Malvertisers  Track  Exploits  and  their  cost  per  impression?    Yes.    Many  RTB  networks  provide  a 
control panel to track advertising campaigns in real-time, along with notifications that bids have been won 
and who exactly was served the malware. 
 
Below is a URL redirection log from First-Impression.com from a winning bid by a malvertiser.  In the URL 
are parameters such as the type of ad, the type of user-agent string of the ad reader specified (which 
discloses browser and java versions), whether it is a retargeted ad based off of cookies (this one was not), 
the  price  paid,  which  is  65.4  cents,  and  the  notification  to  the  malvertiser  that  his  malvertising  was 
delivered. 
  
 http://delivery.first-
impression.com/delivery?action=serve&ssp_id=3&ssp_wsid=2191400908&dssp_id=100&domain_
id=2191400908&ad_id=748271&margin=0.4&cid=155380&bn=sj14&ip_addr=24.234.123.133&ua=15
40937276&top_level_id=24.234.123.133&second_level_id=1540937276&page=thanhniennews.co
m&retargeted=null&height=90&width=728&idfa=null&android_id=null&android_ad_id=null&bi
d_price=0.654&count_notify=1&win_price=$AAABSMPg1dmFEPqXEZe5_CYviub3uOlabldGew 
 

DoubleClick.net  

DoubleClick  discusses  their  targeting  capabilities  in  online  documentation.    Since  they  specialize  in 
knowing  the  location  of their  ad  windows,  they market  those  ad  spaces  to  the  actual  advertisers  and 
malvertisers,  along  with  targeted  demographics  about  the  content  pages,  the  visitors  to the sites  and 
more.   
 

To  showcase  the  variety  of  impression-level  data  available  to  buyers,  consider  the  data  made 
available through a connection to DoubleClick Ad Exchange’s real-time bidding API. With ADX, a 
buyer could consider any of the following data passed from the seller with each impression: 
 
•  Ad  slot  parameters:  visibility  (above  or  below  the  fold),  size,  excluded  creative  attributes, 
excluded advertiser URLs, allowed vendor or ad technology. 
 
• Geo parameters: country, region, metro, city.  
 
• Content parameters: site URL, site language, seller network, vertical or category.  
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

18 

• User parameters: browser, operating system, anonymous cookie (hashed), cookie age. 
 
Just like when considering one type of data, by using the anonymous cookie parameter, buyers 
can consider first-party retargeting or third-party audience data from a data provider. However, 
they can go further in the evaluation by looking at more of these parameters. This helps a buyer 
learn much more about a particular user and a particular impression, gain a smarter answer to 
the three essential questions and make a more data-driven decision. 

Twitter, Facebook and other RTB ads can now target mobile devices by their phone 
numbers. 

This sounds like a great way to advertise if you are in the marketing industry.  Consider how granularly a 
person can be targeted if this service is used maliciously.  If not targeted by the desktop, how about on 
the mobile platform? 
 

Twitter’s Tailored Audiences just got a little more tailored. 
Advertisers  can  now  augment  their  customer  data  using  mobile  advertising  IDs  and  mobile 
phone numbers as a way to reach existing customers and increase audience size. In essence, the 
move is an extension of Twitter’s Tailored Audiences for CRM retargeting, which allows advertisers 
to use hashed non-PII email address to retarget existing customers. (email addresses are twitter 
IDs-  so  you  could  be  targeted  for  ad  delivery  based  on  your  account  name  or  known  phone 
number) 
 
Twitter also rolled out the ability to target lookalike audiences, a function that seems pretty similar 
to Facebook’s tool of the same name. Twitter’s lookalike modeling uses a proprietary algorithm 
that  examines  modeled  users  looking  for  similarities  related  to  behaviors,  interests,  location, 
demographic attributes and engagement patterns. 
 
Twitter described its enhanced as “part of improved targeting options to help advertisers reach 
additional users similar to their existing audiences.” 
 
Tailored Audiences, Twitter’s seeming answer to the Facebook Exchange (FBX), officially launched 
back  in  December  after  running  retargeting  and  database  matching  tests  in  July.  Twitter  has 
appeared to follow Facebook’s lead with a number of its recent roll-outs, including site retargeting, 
CRM targeting and now retargeting via lookalike audiences. (Facebook also makes it possible to 
target users by phone numbers through Custom Audiences.) 

 

Neustar.biz 

Neustar does provide a real-time bidding ad exchange, but their real market is IP intelligence that they 
sell  to  other advertising  networks  for the  purposes of  better  targeting  specific  users.    In  Europe,  laws 
require that advertising networks allow people to opt out of having tracking cookies, which is how many 
advertisers used to rely upon for ad campaign targeting.  To get around this, Neustar perfected IP based 
targeting, which avoids cookies.  They are able to build IP specific browsing profiles based on IP subnets.  
In a blog post below, Neustar boasts about their direct to IP range and enterprise advertising. 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

19 

How can Neustar IP Intelligence target by IP? 
While IP intelligence has been around for many years, the ability to effectively target advertising 
by audience, based on IP is very new. Neustar IP Intelligence is currently working with select DSP 
platforms to buy impressions off of the exchanges based on the IP address rather than cookies. 
This has only been possible with the recent emergence of real time bidding (RTB).  The secret 
sauce is in understanding the IP and the methodology necessary for targeting ads appropriately 
against it. 
 
Is an IP Address like a cookie? 
No, an IP address only identifies devices on a network. The IP address does not contain any PII and 
does  not  track  or  store  any  consumer  usage  or  behavioral  information.  (But  IP  ranges  are 
registered by IANA, and you can easily know who owns the ranges) 
 
Product Specific Questions 
Q1: How does the process work? 
The process works exactly like any advertising network. Instead of buying inventory based on a 
cookie, Neustar is buying inventory based on an IP address. We run the targeting specifics against 
our  proprietary  database  and  create  a  custom  IP  list  to  target  against.  Neustar  has  set  up 
relationships with partners that have built the functionality for this to work end-to-end for our 
advertisers. 
 
Neustar offers a full service ad network. Brand marketers who wish to advertise using IP Audience 
Targeting  can  work  directly  with  Neustar  to  determine  custom  IP  placements,  run  campaigns, 
optimization, reporting and billing. Much like any traditional online publisher or online ad network, 
Neustar manages the entire process. 
 
How does Neustar deliver its ads? 
We use industry standard methods for delivering our ads, but what makes our approach special is 
that  we  bake  in  the  IP  data  before  delivering  the  inventory  with  our  network  partners,  which 
allows  us  to  target  display  ad  campaigns  to  a  specific  business  or  organization.  We  obtain 
inventory from ad exchanges, but have our own ad server. 

Zedo 

Zedo,  blamed  for  recent  malvertising  via  DoubleClick,  say  they  are  now  trying  to  protect  against 
malvertisers in this blog here.  Less than a week after this announcement, they published another blog 
post that describes how they can push advertising to specific platforms, devices, as well as specific markets 
and networks: 
 

ZEDO Advertising Technology Updates – September 2014 

Device Targeting 
Users  can  now  target  ads  to  a  specific  device  when  trafficking  ads.  An  option  for  “Device 
Targeting” is now available under “Targeting”.  A creative targeted to a specific Device will serve 
only on that Device. All major manufacturers/models are supported by this feature. If a creative is 
not targeted to any specific device than it will serve on all device. 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

Invincea White Paper 

20 

Figure 13: Targeting by Device Manufacturer/Model 
 
Apart from device, a user can target various devices based on different categories. At any given 
point of time, a user can target multiple manufacturers and categories. 

 

Figure 14: Targeting by Device Category 
 
Reach Report by Creative 
Apart from existing campaign reach report a user can now pull a reach report by creative. The 
creative  reach  report  is  available  along  with  all  the  existing  parameters  and  can  be  pulled  by 
month, week or day. Creative reach report will show creative wise reach. It will help to analyze 
how effective the reach of a creative was. 

 

 

 

Major Players in RTB  
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

21 

 
To be clear, RTB networks are legitimate platforms for displaying ads on ad-supported websites. They 
enable micro-targeting of user’s interest, delivering content that a viewer would likely want to see. As we 
have detailed here, they can also be mis-appropriated unwittingly by malvertisers using these same tools 
and techniques to target companies with malware for persistent remote access in addition to traditional 
click fraud, phishing, and identity theft. 
 
Below are links to RTB providers to learn more.   
 
http://www.sovrn.com/ 
http://www.turn.com/ 
http://indexexchange.com/ 
https://www.dataxu.com/ 
http://www.sitescout.com/rtb/ 
http://first-impression.com/home/ 
http://www.zedo.com/ 
 
 

How Malvertisers Get $$ to Bid on RTB  
 
 
Invincea has shown logs from a winning malvertising bid in the price range of 65 cents per impression.  
That is one ad, on one page, paid for by the malvertiser’s account.  This implies that malvertisers have 
deep pockets, spending hundreds of dollars on ad impressions.  So how do they get money to spend on 
these malicious campaigns? 
 
Invincea  recently  saw  a  malvertiser  win  a  bid  and  delivered  a  Java exploit.    This  exploit  copied  a  fully 
functional version of Chrome into the Java cache directory, and that version of Chrome launched in the 
background and proceeded to visit websites and click on specific ad banners.  It is presumed that these 
ad  banners  paid  revenue  via  referral  bonuses  to  the  malvertiser.    By  paying  65  cents  to  install  a 
background web browser that does nothing but click fraud, the malvertiser is able to reap hundreds if not 
thousands of dollars in advertising referral income.  It is a pretty good return on investment, which in turn 
allows the malvertiser to fund his micro-targeted malvertising attack campaign. 
 
It is ironic, however, that click fraud is what is driving the prices of RTB advertising so high.  Malvertising 
is not only a danger to end users, but it is a danger to the advertising industry as well.  The image from 
Figure 14 below shows a log file of Chrome, in this instance, renamed Oajvliewxpge.exe, injected via Java 
to  run  in  the  background.    Invincea  detected  this  attack  and  killed  the  infection  attempt.    This  is  one 
instance where the malvertiser wasted his 65 cents. 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

22 

Figure 16: Event tree of click fraud malvertising exploit 
 
It should be noted that Invincea is uniquely capable of stopping this type of attack.  The introduction of 
Chrome as a browser, which is whitelisted by hash across the AV industry, would go unchecked by the AV 
and whitelisting applications industry.  In this instance, the host was almost converted to a click-fraud bot.  
But the malware delivery could have been intended for data exfiltration, banking Trojans, or any other 
more insidious purpose. 
 

 

Where Malvertisers Host Exploits  
 
 
The ability for advertisers and malvertisers to automatically redirect to self-hosted ad content or exploit 
pages is driving RTB malvertising.  Invincea has witnessed a rash of exploit kits and landing pages hosted 
on: 

  Compromised WordPress Blogs 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

23 

  Unconfigured Apache hosts 
  Cloud-based NGINX subdirectories 
  Government and News pages in Poland 
  Free Hosting sites such as ua.in 

 
In most instances, the landing pages are preconfigured with the exploit kit.  The malvertiser creates the 
redirection in his normal ad prior to raising his bids to winning levels.  Once several victims are confirmed, 
those malicious landing pages have the content erased, and the automatic redirection removed to serve 
“normal” ads again. 
 

Real World Examples of RTB Malvertising Captured by Invincea 
 
 
Figures 17 through 21 in the following are screenshots from Invincea’s Threat Management console from 
various  RTB-based  malvertising  incidents  with  highlighted  URLs  for  malvertising  delivered  via  RTB  ad 
bidding. 
 

Figure 17: Recent Blaze.Com RTB Kryptik malvertising via GumGum 
 
 

Figure 18: Online Ammunition Forum had RTB malvertising delivered.  Exploit landing page in 
In.ua. 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

 

 

Invincea White Paper 

24 

Figure 19: Largest Trading Online Forum Trade2Win.com delivered RTB malvertising via 
German provider: 
 
 

Figure 20: Answers.com click bait articles hosted winning RTB bids dropping Kryptik from 
Polish government landing page exploit kits. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

25 

Figure 21: Online Poker Room and targeted RTB attack against Defense Contractor.  Java 
exploit hosted at unconfigured Nginx host. 
 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

26 

Ransomware Campaign via Malvertising 

 

In  September  and  October  of  2014,  Invincea  saw  a  sharp  spike  of  malvertising  delivering  CryptoWall 
ransomware attacks via Real Time Ad Bidding.  We observed Real Time Ad bidding platforms, including 
OpenX,  GoogleAds,  Yahoo,  AOL,  and  first-impression.com,  fall  victim  to  the  ransomware  malvertising 
scheme by unwittingly delivering the CryptoWall 2.0 ransomware ads.  

Ransomware is a particularly pernicious form of malware that fully encrypts the victim’s disk and data 
files, including remote storage, then demands payment of anywhere from $300 to $1000 in return for the 
decryption key. Users are held hostage from their own work, pictures, personal, and proprietary material. 
To learn more about the scourage of ransomware, see this blog. 

Based on analysis of Invincea logs in would-be victims targeted by these ads, we have insight into the 
attacker that is delivering the malicious ads.  According to Invincea analysis of ads delivered from first-
impression.com, winning ad bids ranging from as low as 30 cents and as high as $1.70, were delivered by 
a block of unique identifiers.  It is highly likely that the same attackers are using other RTB ad platforms. 

This campaign matches the characteristics described by Proofpoint in its blog in terms of the exploitation 
methods. Legitimate ad copy is stolen, 3rd party ad networks used to distribute malware, and popular ad-
supported  websites  displaying  the  malicious  ads  that  exploit  unsuspecting  visitors  with  drive-by  web 
exploits. Merely visiting any ad-supported site may result in a CryptoWall ransomware infection. 

Cryptowall 2.0 utilizes the TOR network to hide its communications, but it quickly encrypts all local files 
on the disk, and demands bitcoin payment to unlock the files.  Many companies have fallen prey to this 
attack over the past few months, making this one of the most successful Ransomware campaigns to date. 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

27 

Analysis of CryptoWall Malvertising Infections 
 
Mitigated Infection Event Sports.Yahoo.com 
 
Below is a typical Cryptowall 2 infection as seen in the Invincea Management Server logs.  This winning 
ad placement ran on sports.yahoo.com – an Alexa Top 4 rated site. Highlighted in order in Figure 22 is 
the common filename of obupdat.exe, which has ever changing hashes, followed by the TOR port, and 
the 3rd party ad platform of first-impression.com. 
 
Analysis (Original report): 

 

Figure 22: CryptoWall 2.0 infection report 
 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Timeline Analysis (Original Report): 

Invincea White Paper 

28 

Below in Figure 23 is the timeline of the Tor connections and SSL connections employed by CryptoWall. 

Figure 23: Network connections from CryptoWall 2.0 

 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

29 

In addition, you can see the ransom note being written to disk on an infected machine in the audit logs 
in Figure 24. 

Figure 24: File writes including the ransom note from CryptoWall infection 

Figure 25 shows the winning malvertising bid via RTB ad delivery from first-impression.com. Items 
highlighted in the URL below is userid, and the winning bid price to place malvertising of Cryptowall on 
sports.yahoo.com, which is 60 cents. 

 

Figure 25: Winning malvertising bid with fields embedded in URL 

 

 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

30 

In Figure 26 below, we show the unique identifiers for the userID and campaigns to deliver CryptoWall 
malware that were blocked and audited by Invincea, including the websites that delivered the ads via a 
third-party ad network over the past month.   

userID, CampaignID and CommonName 
748568&margin=0.4&cid=155493&bn=wheelie 
748568&margin=0.4&cid=155493&bn=wheeljack 
748163&margin=0.4&cid=155330&bn=wheeljack   
748566&margin=0.4&cid=155493&bn=redalert 
746705&margin=0.4&cid=154897&bn=dc16 (unknown) 
748480&margin=0.4&cid=155474&bn=redalert 
748600&margin=0.4&cid=155528&bn=inferno 
748418&margin=0.4&cid=155453&bn=inferno 
748270&margin=0.4&cid=155380&bn=sj10 (skipjack) 
748417&margin=0.4&cid=155453&bn=wheeljack 

 

Website Delivering Malvertising 
Hotair.com 
webmail comcast 
theblaze.com 
sports.yahoo.com 
www.searchtempest.com 
viewmixed.com 
rr webmail 
lucianne.com 
thanhniennews.com 
mariowiki.com 

Figure 26: Malware campaigns delivered via 3rd party ad network and the websites that hosted the 
ads 

To reiterate, neither the websites listed here, nor the 3rd party ad network, necessarily was aware of the 
malicious ads they were serving to the website visitors. It is likely they were not aware without ad 
screening technology.  

In each event above, Invincea blocked an attempt to infect an endpoint with Cryptowall 2.0 and 
prevented CryptoWall from encrypting the user’s file system and holding it hostage.  Had the user not 
been running Invincea, the attack would likely have been successful, and the only way the user would 
have had to recover the encrypted files would be to pay the attacker the ransom.  This is an effective 
ransom technique, and one that is paying off well for the attackers, who use the income from the 
attacks to purchase Real Time Ad Bids on RTB networks to infect more users. 

Central Hosting of Clean Content   

 

 
 
Most  RTB  ad  providers  allow  for  advertisers  to  host  their  own  ad  content.    This  allows  advertisers  to 
directly collect web impression data of who is hitting which ads, from where, by which IPs, which user-
agent strings, and just about anything else you could log about a website visit.  In addition, the advertising 
network doesn’t  have to utilize  their own  disk space to host the image  files, the  flash videos or other 
online content.  RTB networks simply do the auctioneering and redirection to the winning content. 
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

31 

It is this weakness in security that malvertisers are taking advantage of.  If ad networks were to switch to 
a  model  where  all  content  is  actually  hosted  by  them  (1st  party  hosting),  in  a  cloud,  then  the  risk  of 
malvertising would drop dramatically.   
 
The  RubiconProject  has  a  Seller’s  Cloud,  which  could  be  a  security  model  for  the  RTB  industry.    It  is 
inherently more secure way of hosting ad content.   
 

 

How to Protect Yourself  from Micro-targeted Malvertising 

 
Operation  DeathClick  is  an  active  campaign  to  micro-target  companies  via  malvertising  in  order  to 
compromise their networks. Unfortunately, the micro-targeting malvertising technique evades almost all 
network controls and traditional endpoint anti-virus solutions. Invincea can protect users from this attack 
type  among  other  targeted  and  opportunistic  web-based  threats.    For  half  the  price  of  a  candy  bar, 
attackers have the unprecedented ability to deliver malware to you through your web browser simply 
because of your IP address space and your industry vertical.   Most of the attacks featured here were not 
detected by standard Anti-Virus because the malware hashes constantly change.   
 
Web proxy blocking updates, even in real time, will not stop new malvertising landing pages that appear 
and disappear within minutes. 
 
Intelligence feeds from the premier intelligence providers, based on hostname, IP, URL or domain will not 
be able to block malicious malvertisers quickly enough.   
 
Invincea  protected  users  can  simply  browse  and  click  anything  online  without  fear  of  compromise  or 
targeted malvertising attacks. 
 
Non-Invincea users can attempt to OptOut of directed targeting where you can.  European privacy laws 
for  forcing  most  ad  providers  to  offer  the  opt-out  service;  however,  you  often  have  to  visit  each  ad 
provider individually to choose to opt out.   
 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

 

Invincea White Paper 

32 

Note, that opting out merely places a blocking cookie in your browser.  This means that ad providers will 
not  target  or  retarget  based  on  cookies.    But  as  shown  above,  the  new  targeted  advertising  is  via  IP 
intelligence. 
 
http://www.rubiconproject.com/privacy/consumer-online-profile-and-opt-out/ 
http://preferences-mgr.truste.com/ 
http://www.ghosteryenterprise.com/global-opt-out/ 
 

Release Notes 

 

10/27: For clarification, Invincea has added additional notes in this version that the websites shown here 
and the 3rd party real-time ad networks are being used unwittingly and their resources misappropriated 
by malvertisers to target companies for persistent remote access, click fraud, and other nefarious 
activities. This is not a reflection on these companies, nor the services they provide. This paper 
highlights the problem for greater awareness so the industry collectively can combat this problem 
perhaps with more effective screening at the source prior to displaying ads. 

 

Invincea, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Release Date: 10.27.2014 

