»  Print

This  copy  is  for  your  personal,  non-­commercial  use  only.  To  order  presentation-­ready  copies  for  distribution  to  colleagues,
clients  or  customers,  use  the  Reprints  tool  at  the  top  of  any  article  or  visit:  www.reutersreprints.com.

Suspected  Russian  spyware  Turla  targets  Europe,
United  States

2:45pm  EST
By  Peter  Apps  and  Jim  Finkle
LONDON/BOSTON  (Reuters)  -­  A  sophisticated  piece  of  spyware  has  been
quietly  infecting  hundreds  of  government  computers  across  Europe  and
the  United  States  in  one  of  the  most  complex  cyber  espionage  programs
uncovered  to  date.
Several  security  researchers  and  Western  intelligence  officers  say  they
believe  the  malware,  widely  known  as  Turla,  is  the  work  of  the  Russian
government  and  linked  to  the  same  software  used  to  launch  a  massive
breach  on  the  U.S.  military  uncovered  in  2008.
It  was  also  linked  to  a  previously  known,  massive  global  cyber  spying
operation  dubbed  Red  October  targeting  diplomatic,  military  and  nuclear
research  networks.
Those  assessments  were  based  on  analysis  of  tactics  employed  by  hackers,  along  with  technical  indicators  and  the  victims
they  targeted.
"It  is  sophisticated  malware  that's  linked  to  other  Russian  exploits,  uses  encryption  and  targets  western  governments.  It  has
Russian  paw  prints  all  over  it,"  said  Jim  Lewis,  a  former  U.S.  foreign  service  officer,  now  senior  fellow  at  the  Center  for
Strategic  and  International  Studies  in  Washington.
However,  security  experts  caution  that  while  the  case  for  saying  Turla  looks  Russian  may  be  strong,  it  is  impossible  to  confirm
those  suspicions  unless  Moscow  claims  responsibility.  Developers  often  use  techniques  to  cloud  their  identity.
The  threat  surfaced  this  week  after  a  little  known  German  anti-­virus  firm,  G  Data,  published  a  report  on  the  virus,  which  it
called  Uroburos,  the  name  text  in  the  code  that  may  be  a  reference  to  the  Greek  symbol  of  a  serpent  eating  its  own  tail.
Experts  in  state-­sponsored  cyber  attacks  say  that  Russian  government-­backed  hackers  are  known  for  being  highly
disciplined,  adept  at  hiding  their  tracks,  extremely  effective  at  maintaining  control  of  infected  networks  and  more  selective  in
choosing  targets  than  their  Chinese  counterparts.
"They  know  that  most  people  don't  have  either  the  technical  knowledge  or  the  fortitude  to  win  a  battle  with  them.  When  they
recognize  that  someone  is  onto  them,  they  just  go  dormant,"  said  one  expert  who  helps  victims  of  state-­sponsored  hacking.
A  former  Western  intelligence  official  commented:  "They  can  draw  on  some  very  high  grade  programmers  and  engineers,
including  the  many  who  work  for  organized  criminal  groups,  but  also  function  as  privateers."
Russia's  Federal  Security  Bureau  declined  comment  as  did  Pentagon  and  U.S.  Department  of  Homeland  Security  officials.
On  Friday,  Britain's  BAE  Systems  Applied  Intelligence  -­  the  cyber  arm  of  Britain's  premier  defense  contractor  -­  published  its
own  research  on  the  spyware,  which  it  called  "snake."
The  sheer  sophistication  of  the  software,  it  said,  went  well  beyond  that  previously  encountered  -­  although  it  did  not  attribute
blame  for  the  attack.
"The  threat...  really  does  raise  the  bar  in  terms  of  what  potential  targets,  and  the  security  community  in  general,  have  to  do  to
keep  ahead  of  cyber  attacks,"  said  Martin  Sutherland,  managing  director  of  BAE  Systems  Applied  Intelligence.
NATO  NATIONS  TARGETED
Security  firms  have  been  monitoring  Turla  for  several  years.
Symantec  Corp  estimates  up  to  1,000  networks  have  been  infected  by  Turla  and  a  related  virus,  Agent.BTZ.  It  named  no
victims,  saying  only  that  most  were  government  computers.
BAE  said  it  has  collected  over  100  unique  samples  of  Turla  since  2010,  including  32  from  Ukraine,  11  from  Lithuania  and  4
from  Great  Britain.  It  obtained  smaller  numbers  from  other  countries.
Hackers  use  Turla  to  establish  a  hidden  foothold  in  infected  networks  from  which  they  can  search  other  computers,  store
stolen  information,  then  transmit  data  back  to  their  servers.
"While  it  seems  to  be  Russian,  there  is  no  way  to  know  for  sure,"  said  Mikko  Hypponen,  chief  research  officer  with  Helsinki-­
based  F-­Secure,  which  encountered  Turla  last  year.

Security  firms  that  are  monitoring  the  threat  have  said  the  operation's  sophistication  suggests  it  was  likely  backed  by  a  nation
state  and  that  technical  indicators  make  them  believe  it  is  the  work  of  Russian  developers.
European  governments  have  long  welcomed  U.S.  help  against  Kremlin  spying,  but  were  infuriated  last  year  to  discover  the
scale  of  surveillance  by  America's  National  Security  Agency  that  stretched  also  to  their  own  territory.
AGENT.BTZ,  RED  OCTOBER
Security  experts  say  stealthy  Turla  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  one  of  the  most  notorious  pieces  of  spyware  uncovered  to
date:  Agent.BTZ.  It  was  used  in  a  massive  cyber  espionage  operation  on  U.S.  Central  Command  that  surfaced  in  2008  and  is
one  of  the  most  serious  U.S.  breaches  to  date.  While  Washington  never  formally  attributed  blame,  several  U.S.  officials  have
told  Reuters  they  believed  it  was  the  work  of  Russia.
Hypponen  said  Agent.BTZ  was  initially  found  in  a  military  network  of  a  European  NATO  state  in  2008,  but  gave  no  details.  F-­
Secure  is  credited  with  naming  that  piece  of  malware  in  2008,  though  researchers  believe  it  was  created  already  in  2006.
Kaspersky  Lab  researcher  Kurt  Baumgartner  said  he  believes  Turla  and  Agent.BTZ  are  related  to  Red  October,  which
suddenly  shut  down  after  his  firm  reported  on  it  in  January  2013.
"Unusually  unique  artifacts  link  Red  October,  Agent.BTZ  and  Turla,"  he  said,  referring  to  strings  of  text  contained  in  the  code
and  functionality  of  the  malware.
Eric  Chien,  technical  director  with  Symantec  Security  Response,  described  Turla  as  "the  evolution"  of  Agent.BTZ.  "They  are  a
very  active  development  group,"  Chien  said.
Finland  said  its  Foreign  Ministry  computer  systems  had  been  penetrated  by  an  attack  last  year  but  would  not  elaborate.
Sweden's  National  Defence  Radio  Establishment  said  cyber  espionage  was  "more  common  than  people  think",  adding  that  it
had  discovered  multiple  attacks  against  authorities,  governments  and  universities,  some  only  detected  after  several  years.
Government  sources  in  the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Poland  and  Romania  said  Turla  had  not  affected  them  directly.  Other
European  governments  contacted  by  Reuters  declined  comment.
CHASING  TURLA
Although  computer  security  researchers  have  been  quietly  studying  Turla  for  more  than  two  years,  public  discussions  of  the
threat  only  began  after  G  Data  published  its  report.
G  Data  spokesman  Eddy  Willems  declined  to  name  any  victims  or  identify  the  author  of  the  report,  saying  the  firm  was
concerned  the  group  behind  Turla  might  attempt  to  harm  him.
Jaime  Blasco,  director  of  AlienVault  Labs,  said  that  Turla  was  more  of  a  "framework"  for  espionage  than  simply  malware.
The  malware  is  a  "root  kit"  that  hides  the  presence  of  the  spying  operation  and  also  creates  a  hidden,  encrypted  file  system  to
store  stolen  data  and  tools  used  by  the  attackers,  he  said.  Those  tools  include  password  stealers,  tiny  programs  for  gathering
information  about  the  system  and  document  stealers.
The  operators  can  download  specialized  tools  onto  an  infected  system,  adding  any  functionality  they  want  by  including  it  in
the  encrypted  file  system,  Blasco  said.
They  have  used  dozens  of  different  "command  and  control"  servers  located  in  countries  around  the  world  to  control  infected
systems,  according  to  Symantec,  whose  researchers  have  helped  identify  and  shut  down  some  of  those  systems.
Researchers  say  Turla's  code  is  regularly  updated,  including  changes  to  avoid  detection  as  anti-­virus  companies  detect  new
strains.  BAE  said  it  had  two  samples  created  in  January  2014.
Chien  said  that  in  some  cases  when  a  command  and  control  server  was  taken  offline,  Turla's  operators  have  quickly  pushed
out  new  versions  of  the  malware  that  directed  infected  computers  to  new  command  and  control  servers.
"They  have  a  super  active  development  team,"  he  said.
(Additional  reporting  by  Jan  Strouhal  in  Prague,  Marcin  Goeetig  in  Warsaw,  Guy  Faulconbridge  in  London,  Zoran
Radosavljevic  in  Zagreb,  Gwladys  Fouche  in  Oslo,  Matthias  Williams  in  Bucharest,  Gabriela  Baczynska  in  Moscow,
Alexandra  Hudson  in  Berlin,  Johan  Sennero  in  Stockholm,  Phil  Stewart  in  Washington;;  Editing  by  Richard  Valdmanis  and
Ralph  Boulton)

©  Thomson  Reuters  2014.  All  rights  reserved.  Users  may  download  and  print  extracts  of  content  from  this  website  for  their
own  personal  and  non-­commercial  use  only.  Republication  or  redistribution  of  Thomson  Reuters  content,  including  by
framing  or  similar  means,  is  expressly  prohibited  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Thomson  Reuters.  Thomson  Reuters
and  its  logo  are  registered  trademarks  or  trademarks  of  the  Thomson  Reuters  group  of  companies  around  the  world.
Thomson  Reuters  journalists  are  subject  to  an  Editorial  Handbook  which  requires  fair  presentation  and  disclosure  of  relevant
interests.
This  copy  is  for  your  personal,  non-­commercial  use  only.  To  order  presentation-­ready  copies  for  distribution  to  colleagues,
clients  or  customers,  use  the  Reprints  tool  at  the  top  of  any  article  or  visit:  www.reutersreprints.com.

