CrowdStrike  
Global ThreaT InTel reporT

t w o   t h o u s a n d   f o u r t e e n

w w w. c r o w d s t r i k e . c o m

Table of 
Contents:

INTRODUCTION .........................................................................4

KEY FINDINGS ............................................................................7

STATE OF THE UNION .............................................................9

NOTABLE ACTIVITY ............................................................... 13

Criminal ................................................................................ 13
State ...................................................................................... 19
Hacktivist/Nationalist ............................................................. 25
2014 Zero-Day Activity ........................................................... 34
Event-Driven Operations ......................................................... 39
KNOW THE ADVERSARY ....................................................49

Effect of Public Reporting on Adversary Activity ........................ 49
HURRICANE PANDA .................................................................50
GOTHIC PANDA ..........................................................................55
Overview of Russian Threat Actors ........................................... 57
2015 PREDICTIONS.................................................................61

CONCLUSION ........................................................................... 73

2

Introduction 

intelligence powers 
everything we do.  

Dive into the top threat 
actors, attack vectors, 
and threat intelligence 

trends of 2014.

Intro:

At CrowdStrike, “Intelligence powers everything we do.” This is not a corporate slogan, 
and it is not a marketing theme. It is the realization of having the most dedicated 
professionals focusing on solving problems that have real strategic, political, and 
financial impact on our customers. When we consider the problems facing our 
customers, we know that intelligence allows them to make key decisions that can mean 
the difference between disaster and triumph.

In the earliest days building CrowdStrike, we drew heavily on the concepts 
encompassed in Colonel John Boyd’s OODA loop (OODA is an acronym for Observe, 
Orient, Decide, Act). It has been applied over the years to all manner of decision-making 
situations. The core of the OODA model is that a decision-making process is broken into 
phases, and in an adversarial encounter, two entities will go through the same process. 
Whichever entity goes through the process the fastest will likely prevail.

The reason that intelligence powers everything we do is that we seek to provide our 
customers with the ability to come to a decision (the last step of the OODA loop) 
before the adversary does, thus ensuring a favorable outcome. In intelligence circles, 
this is often referred to as decision advantage, and when dealing with adversaries trying 
to compromise your enterprise security, you want it.

Throughout 2014, the activity monitored by CrowdStrike in the cyber domain was 
reflective of the events unfolding in the real world. This was punctuated in late 2014 
with the now-infamous attack attributed to North Korean actors who levied destructive 
malware in a flagrant assault against a private entity. The actor in this case, which 
CrowdStrike has traced back to 2006, has a history of using destructive code against its 
targets. This actor again launched attacks in December against its usual adversary, the 
Republic of Korea.

The highly publicized events that initially suppressed the release of a movie deemed 
offensive by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea resulted in unprecedented 
awareness of the power that one adversary can wield against a target if they are 
suitably motivated.

This final chapter in 2014 closed out what was a year of attribution and adversary 
focus. In May, the U.S. Department of Justice, in concert with various partners including 
CrowdStrike researchers, disrupted the infrastructure of Gameover Zeus, a prolific 

4

Intro:

botnet that was the scourge of security practitioners across the globe. This disruption, 
which also impacted the nefarious CryptoLocker malware, provided the pause in 
adversary activity needed by law enforcement to levy charges and take legal action to 
permanently impact this malware.

In that same month, the U.S. Department of Justice charged five officers in the 
People’s Liberation Army, the military organ of the People’s Republic of China, with 
violating 18 U.S. Code § 1030. In June, CrowdStrike published a detailed analysis of 
an actor associated with the 12th Bureau of the Third General Staff Department. This 
report demonstrated a direct lineage between malware targeting a variety of western 
technology and government targets, and an individual in the Chinese intelligence service.

The events that unfolded in the South China Sea near the Paracel Islands, the 
emergence of ISIS, the unrest in Ukraine, and the disappearance of a Malaysian airliner 
all took on a cyber element. This is no coincidence. The nation-states of the world are 
all seeking the aforementioned decision advantage, and they know that the use of 
interconnected computers allows them to collect intelligence that gives them the ability 
to make informed decisions.

Our customers rely on us to provide them intelligence to thwart these attacks and make 
informed decisions. This report will provide an overview of some of the intelligence 
analyzed by the CrowdStrike team over the past year. 

Wrapping so much analysis into one report means a lot of tough decisions needed to 
be made on what to include. This report is structured to provide Key Findings first. 
Following the key findings are some graph data based on the patterns that emerged 
though visibility attained by the CrowdStrike team; this is meant to provide a snapshot 
of the dozens of adversaries tracked this year. In the Notable Activity section, we cover 
the three motivations that we see: Criminal, Targeted-Intrusion, and Hacktivist/Activist. 
We explore notable activity around zero-day exploits and event-specific operations 
conducted by these adversaries.

There are so many interesting actors we discovered this year, and even more that 
advanced from previous years; the Know the Adversary section contains interesting 
observations for just a few of the adversaries from the intelligence reports we  
publish through the subscription service. Finally, we provide an analysis of the  
2013 report predictions for the past year, and a forecast of what to expect in 2015.  

5

Key 

Findings

In 2014, it became 

abundantly clear that 

threat intelligence would 

provide the decisive 
advantage when 

protecting your network.

Key 
Findings:

•  Financial crime malware disruptions in 2014 changed  

the threat landscape by eliminating two prevalent 
malware families.

•  Since the high-profile Target breach in 2013, Point- 

of-Sale (PoS) malware became prevalent in the targeting 
of numerous retail organizations. Look for policy and 
process changes to mitigate this threat in 2015.

•  China-based adversaries continued to be the most 
prolific in the targeted intrusion space, but public 
reporting on a number of actors linked to Iran and  
Russia show the breadth of the threat from targeted 
intrusion operators.

•  High-profile events continued to drive a significant 

number of targeted intrusion campaigns. In 2014, 
unpredictable events such as the Malaysia Airlines 
incidents and increased unrest in Ukraine drove 
campaigns more than planned events such as the  
World Cup or the G20 Summit.

•  Malicious activity related to elections in Ukraine and 

Hong Kong underscore the threat state-sponsored 
adversaries (and possibly hacktivist or nationalist  
actors) pose to democratic processes.

•  CrowdStrike reported on a number of new,  

sophisticated adversaries from China and Russia such  
as HURRICANE PANDA, GOTHIC PANDA,  
FANCY BEAR, and BERSERK BEAR. 

7

State of  
the Union

The CrowdStrike Global 

Intelligence team 
observed significant 

activity from 39 different 

criminal, hacktivist, 
state-sponsored, and 
nationalist adversaries.

State  
of the 
Union:

During 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed significant activity from 39 
state-sponsored and nationalist adversaries targeting numerous verticals 
all over the globe. The charts below provide a high-level illustration of this 
targeting. There are a few takeaways from this data.

Vietnam and GOBLIN PANDA were respectively the most targeted 
country and the most active adversary. From late spring through summer, 
GOBLIN PANDA conducted consistent targeted intrusion operations 
targeting organizations in Vietnam focused on tensions in the South China 
Sea. These campaigns relied primarily on spear phishing with malicious 
documents that dropped malware (mostly PlugX) along with Vietnamese-
language decoy documents. The content of these decoys often came from 
documents produced by Vietnam’s government, which indicates that the 
adversary possibly infiltrated the government’s network and was using 
stolen documents in its operations. The frequency of GOBLIN PANDA’s 
operations, and targeted activity aimed at Vietnam in general, tailed off in 
the final months of 2014, but the volume of activity in spring and summer 
was enough to push them to the top of CrowdStrike’s targeting stats. 

■  GOBLIN PANDA
■  VIXeN PANDA
■  DeeP PANDA
■  eMISSARy PANDA
■  eNeRGeTIC BeAR
■  PIRATe PANDA
■  FLyING KITTeN
■  NUMBeReD PANDA
■  LOTUS PANDA
■  VICeROy TIGeR
■  eXTReMe JACKAL
■  PITTy PANDA
■  GOTHIC PANDA
■  DeADeye JACKAL
■  PReDATOR PANDA
■  DyNAMITe PANDA
■  TeMPeR PANDA
■  PALe PANDA
■  VIOLIN PANDA
■  SILeNT CHOLIMMA
■  HURRICANe PANDA
■  SABRe PANDA
■  SAMURAI PANDA
■  DAGGeR PANDA
■  AURORA PANDA
■  MAVeRICK PANDA
■  KeyHOLe PANDA
■  STONe PANDA
■  SPICy PANDA

9

Observed 
AdversAry 
Activity 
during 2014

State  
of the 
Union:

■  VIeTNAM
■  UNITeD STATeS
■  INDIA
■  RUSSIA
■  PHILLIPPINeS
■  TAIWAN
■  TIBeT
■  JAPAN
■  FRANCe
■  VICeROy TIGeR
■  MyANMAR
■  THAILAND
■  UK
■  SOUTH KOReA
■  MONGOLIA
■  SAUDI ARABIA
■  TURKey
■  MALDIVeS
■  PAKISTAN
■  IRAN
■  GeRMANy
■  LAOS
■  BRAZIL
■  CANADA
■  AUSTRALIA

significAnt tArgeting by cOuntry in 2014 

PlugX was by far the most used malware variant for targeted activity 
during 2014. It proliferated greatly amongst China-based targeted intrusion 
adversaries and now appears to be the tool of choice for many. The 
malware has been around for years and has been used by multiple Chinese 
actors for quite some time; however, the frequency of PlugX use during 
2014 revealed just how prominent it is. 

PlugX is used by both more advanced China-based adversaries such as 
AURORA PANDA and adversaries of a lower level of sophistication such 
as GOBLIN PANDA. The reason for its prevalence is not clear. It is possible 
that there is a central malware dissemination channel supplying many 
Chinese adversaries and this is why so many groups are now using it. It is 
also possible that groups not using it in the past were more recently able  
to obtain it via the underground or public malware repositories. 

10

State  
of the 
Union:

The stats below also reflect a wide range of other malicious cyber activity 
associated with numerous other events. The conflict in Ukraine resulted in 
targeted intrusion and other activity from both Russia-based and China-
based adversaries. Adversaries with a nexus to Iran were also very active in 
2014 targeting western government entities as well as private organizations, 
particularly in the defense sector. elections were also heavily targeted in 
2014 both in Ukraine and in Hong Kong, where the Umbrella Revolution 
garnered a great deal of attention from Chinese actors. These and a number 
of other topics are covered in more detail in the sections below.  

MOst Observed 
MAlwAre 
vAriAnts fOr 
tArgeted 
intrusiOn 
OperAtiOns 
during 2014

significAnt 
tArgeting by 
sectOr  
during 2014

■  PLUGX
■  eNFAL
■  LINGBO
■  POISON IVy
■  SyNDICASeC
■  eVILGRAB
■  NAIKON
■  NeT TRAVeLeR
■  eLISe
■  SAKULA
■  PIRPI

■  qUARIAN
■  MIRAGe
■  MeDUSA
■  9BLOG
■  HTTPBROWSeR
■  SUPeRMAN
■  MAD HATTeR
■  SyKIPOT
■  DeRUSBI
■  TAIDOOR
■  PReSHIN

■  GOVeRNMeNT
■  DeFeNSe
■  DISSIDeNT
■  POLITICAL
■  AeROSPACe
■  FINANCIAL
■  eNeRGy
■  NGO
■  TeCHNOLOGy
■  eNGINeeRING
■  AGRICULTURe
■  TeLeCOM.
■  ReSeARCH
■  INDUSTRIAL
■  LeGAL
■  HeALTHCARe
■  TRANSPORTATION
■  eXTRACTIVe
■  MeDIA
■  MANUFACTURING
■  CHeMICAL
■  UNIVeRSITy

11

Notable  
Activity

Financial crime malware 

changed the threat 
landscape, point-of-
sale malware became 
increasingly prevalent, 

and China-based 

adversaries continued 

to proliferate in the 

targeted intrusion space. 

Notable 
Activity

Criminal
CybERCRImE TRENDS IN 2014

2014 was an extremely active year for cybercrime. 
Financial Trojans grew in both complexity and penetration. 
Two major banking botnets – Gameover Zeus (GOZ) 
and Shylock – dominated the first half of the year. Their 
development focused on the ability to deliver complex 
web injection scripts used to overcome two-factor 
authentication and online banking security. 

Two large, successful disruptions were mounted mid-year with CrowdStrike 
assisting in a June takeover of GOZ (see the next section), and in Shylock being 
taken down in July. For some time, this left a void in this space, but adversaries 
were very quick to adapt. With many services that catered to GOZ and Shylock 
still in operation, it was inevitable other botnets would step up to the plate.

CrowdStrike is now observing two new major contenders in this space: 
Dyreza and Dridex, also known as Bugat. Dyreza takes a more simplistic 
approach to banking fraud, acting to intercept logins and perform malicious 
actions by acquiring the HTTP POST data from under banking SSL sessions. 
Dridex uses the classic banking Trojan tactic of relying on complex JavaScript 
web injects targeted at the institutions it wishes to steal from. Both threats 
rely on the same criminal ecosystem as their predecessors.

Upatre, a loader previously used for delivering GOZ, is now being used to 
deliver Dyreza, and known loaders such as Andromeda, Smoke Loader, 
and Pony Loader continue to be developed in order to deliver these 
primary payloads. The Cutwail and Pushdo botnets, previously tasked with 
distributing loaders for GOZ, have since been retasked, and, alongside other 
spamming botnets, are now delivering a number of phishing lures that 
ultimately lead to the infection with persistent payloads. Dridex, for  
example, favors Word documents with obfuscated macros. These macros,  
if allowed to execute, will reach out and download first-stage loaders that will 
then install the Dridex payload onto the victim machine.

13

Notable 
Activity

In addition to the changing banking Trojan landscape, ransomware has also 
undergone a major shift throughout 2014 — in particular becoming much 
more professionally organized. CryptoLocker’s success made it the first 
ransomware variant to make it into prime-time news. Its success was, in part, 
due to its wide distribution, acting as an alternative revenue stream for the 
operators of GOZ. When GOZ was dismantled, CryptoLocker was also taken 
down, but now in its place many other copycat ransomware families are 
trying to replicate its success, such as CryptoWall and TorrentLocker.

So what is to be expected for the cybercrime landscape of 2015? 
CrowdStrike predicts the continuation of development in banking Trojans 
such as Dyreza and Dridex. As recently as November, Dridex has added 
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) functionality to its arsenal in an attempt to become 
more resilient, and it is likely changes in its capability will continue. In 
addition, it is likely new threats will follow the business model of using of 
phishing lures delivered by spambots using a range of first-stage loaders to 
keep their primary payloads under the radar. Ransomware will continue to 
become more of a threat as continued copycats try to develop the  
next market leader.

GAmEOvER ZEUS TAKEDOwN
Gameover Zeus (GOZ) was a complex P2P botnet that has been one of the 
most prevalent cyber threats for almost four years. It was forked off the 
infamous Zeus Trojan, the source code of which was leaked in spring 2011 – 
just a few months before the appearance of the first GOZ version. GOZ was 
largely used for banking fraud and the delivery of other malware, such as the 
CryptoLocker ransomware Trojan, and is believed to have caused more than 
$100 million in financial damage.

The GOZ botnet was long believed to be resistant to any takedown attempts 
because of its complex, tiered infrastructure: Infected machines form a 
decentralized P2P network, with some peers acting as proxy nodes (brokers 
between bots and the next tier). This upper tier, again, consists of proxies 
that conceal the location of the actual back end. The use of P2P technology 
eliminates static rendezvous points and allows the botnet operators to 
announce new centralized components at any time, which makes any 

14

Notable 
Activity

efforts against them pointless. On top of this, a fallback mechanism 
generates a weekly-changing, deterministic set of 1,000 domain names 
that the botmaster can register in order to serve fresh peer lists. Bots that 
fail to establish contact with the P2P network would consult the Domain 
Generation Algorithm (DGA) in order to retrieve a new set of peers. Finally, 
all communication in the botnet is encrypted.

In June 2014, the botnet was disrupted in a coordinated effort called 
Operation Tovar that was the culmination of months of technical 
investigation and legal wrangling. The botnet was disrupted by the taking 
over of its infrastructure and at the same time preventing access by the 
botmasters. While this effort had to take into account and block all different 
communication channels, it was primarily focused on the P2P network, 
as it was the most complex component. By propagating specially crafted 
messages in the botnet, its infrastructure was degenerated and bots were 
redirected to sinkholes.

The CrowdStrike Intelligence team provided technical expertise to permit 
the enforcement of a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO), which successfully 
disrupted not only the infamous Gameover Zeus botnet, but also 
CryptoLocker. In addition to the technical disruption, the U.S. Department of 
Justice filed an indictment against an individual called evgeniy Mikhailovich 
Bogachev, who is believed to be behind the GOZ botnet, as well as several 
other unnamed co-conspirators.

POINT-OF-SAlE mAlwARE AND RElATED INTRUSIONS
Credit card fraud has traditionally been popular in the cybercrime scene. 
In cases where credit card data is stolen through website breaches, the 
exposed data usually consists of the card numbers, expiration dates, 
cardholder names, and card security codes. However, with this data 
alone, it is not always possible to accurately recreate what can be found 
on a card’s magnetic strip. In the criminal marketplace, card track data is 
therefore generally more highly valued than the information mentioned 
above because it can be used in multiple ways, including manufacturing 
counterfeit credit cards.

Throughout 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence investigated several large 

15

Notable 
Activity

breaches of U.S. companies in the retail sector. These breaches involved 
targeting of Point-of-Sale (PoS) terminals in order to plunder consumer 
credit card information. By infecting terminals with malware specifically 
designed to steal credit card information as the cards are swiped by 
customers, attackers were able to collect data for hundreds of thousands of 
credit cards. Running in the background of a terminal, the malware would 
continuously scan memory for unique patterns found on a card’s magnetic 
strip and exfiltrate matching data to an adversary-controlled server.

mAjOR PAYmENT SYSTEm BREACHS OF 2014

TARGeT CUSTOMeR
BReACH TIeMFRAMe

mICHAElS
NOTIFIES  
CUSTOmERS
OF BREACH

jImmY jOHNS
NOTIFIES  

CUSTOmERS OF 

BREACH

BEBE NOTIFIES  
CUSTOmERS OF 

BREACH

SAllY BEAUTY

NOTIFIES  
CUSTOmERS
OF BREACH

NEImAN mARCUS

NOTIFIES  

CUSTOmERS  
OF BREACH

HOmE DEPOT 

NOTIFIES  

CUSTOmERS OF 

BREACH

NOV.
2013

DeC.
2013

JAN.
2014

FeB.
2014

MAR. 
2014

APR. 
2014

MAy 
2014

JUNe 
2014

JULy 
2014

AUG.
2014

SePT. 
2014

SePT. 
2014

OCT. 
2014

NOV. 
2014

DeC. 
2014

TARGET NOTIFIES

CUSTOmERS  
OF BREACH

TIMeFRAMe OF 

GOODWILL BReACH

AlBERTSONS  

NOTIFIES  

CUSTOmERS OF 

BREACH

DAIRY QUEEN 

NOTIFIES  

CUSTOmERS OF 

BREACH

Most PoS malware families will attempt to validate data matching the search 
pattern using the Luhn Algorithm. This algorithm, originally developed by 
IBM in the 1950s, allows for validation of card numbers by performing an 
arithmetic operation against them. Despite being developed in the pre-
modern computing era, the algorithm is still widely used in many modern 
systems including cell phone IMeI numbers, credit card numbers, and 
national identification numbers.

16

Notable 
Activity

TARGET BREACH
On 19 December 2013, U.S.-based retailer Target released a statement 
confirming a breach and providing an estimate of the total scope. According 
to the statement, the actors were able to steal data for approximately 40 
million credit cards and up to 70 million individuals’ records with Personally 
Identifiable Information (PII). From reporting about the breach, it is publicly 
speculated that the actors were able to access Target’s network via 
credentials stolen from a Pennsylvania-based HVAC contractor that provided 
services to Target.

In January 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence analyzed several files from the 
incident. One of these files was a PoS malware named Kaptoxa (also known 
as mmon), which is used as a component in another PoS malware, BlackPoS. 
This copy of Kaptoxa continuously scanned volatile memory of infected 
systems for patterns that looked like credit card numbers and logged them 
to a file that was transferred to an internal network share at regular intervals. 
Another utility was deployed onto these network shares to perform the final 
exfiltration step in which the data was transferred to external FTP servers. 

In January 2014, CrowdStrike identified a malware staging site that was 
hosting a copy of the BlackPoS source code. While it is believed that this 
site is not linked to the Target breach, analysis of the source code provided 
additional insight into the simplicity of these tools. Compared to other 
crimeware families, most PoS malware is relatively simple in design and 
functionality. The malware used does not accept tasking from controllers or 
external systems; its sole function is to scan, log, and exfiltrate data found. 
Despite the simplistic nature of these tools, the adversary behind the Target 
breach demonstrated sophisticated tradecraft in mounting a successful 
operation, primarily by taking full advantage of the initial stolen credentials 
to laterally move throughout the targeted network into the PoS systems.

THE RISE OF COmmODITY POS
In 2014, while several major companies were coping with breaches of their 
PoS infrastructure, many smaller retailers were facing the same threat from 
less-organized groups. In underground marketplaces, ready-to-use PoS 
malware kits were becoming more commonly available. 

17

Notable 
Activity

Malware such as BlackPoS requires a bit of strategic planning on the part of 
the adversary; much of the system lacks the point-and-click intuitive nature 
of commodity botnets. For less-organized or less-skilled adversary groups, 
an off-the-shelf kit such as Dexter PoS may allow for exploitation and 
offensive capabilities that may not otherwise be possible.

Dexter, which CrowdStrike Intelligence reported on in 2013, became one of 
the most publicly known PoS malware kits on the market. By late 2014, the 
source code for Dexter was publicly available on several criminal forums. The 
malware scans memory for both Track 1 and Track 2 credit card data and 
exfiltrates its findings back to control servers over HTTP requests.

dexter 
cOMMAnd- 
And-cOntrOl 
pAnel

Dexter offers an adversary a clean, simple control panel, which allows for 
infected host management and viewing of obtained data.

In 2014, CrowdStrike investigated several other kits similar to Dexter, 
including vSkimmer and JackPoS, which also focused on stealing credit 
card numbers from infected terminals. Many of these lacked technical 
sophistication, but were generally found to be effective in identifying and 
exfiltrating any found data.

18

Notable 
Activity

State
TARGETED INTRUSION TRENDS IN 2014

Incidents of targeted intrusion activity related to nation-state interests have 
been on the increase for the past several years. Different states’ activities 
often reflect their national interests and agendas, or their deepest concerns. 
As an example, Chinese nation-state actors appeared to clearly align and plan 
operations in support of real-world activities in the case of the Haiyang Shiyou 
981 oil platform. In direct contradiction to pre-planned operations, in the case 
of the Umbrella Revolution that dominated the streets of Hong Kong during 
the summer and fall of 2014, Chinese adversary groups were observed broadly 
targeting any and all organizations related to the civil unrest in a wild attempt 
to collect intelligence on the protestors and their movements. 

During the course of 2014, CrowdStrike observed the continued proliferation 
of targeted intrusion activity. Nation-states understand the value of 
collecting intelligence in the information domain and are mobilizing 
resources to capitalize on the intelligence opportunities that exist there. 
While the CrowdStrike Intelligence team identified and analyzed well over a 
dozen new adversary groups worldwide in 2014, there were several that were 
of general interest.

FlYING KITTEN
FLyING KITTeN is an adversary believed to be operating 
out of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This group was first 
observed initiating targeted intrusion activity in late 2013 
and has continued to be active throughout 2014. In January 

2014, CrowdStrike became aware of an ongoing operation by this actor 
targeting a company in the defense industrial base in the United States. This 
campaign leveraged fake websites to trick users into entering credentials, 
and to concurrently serve malware that poses as software updates for 
legitimate applications. Shortly after this activity was identified, other 
campaigns against additional targets in the defense and aerospace sectors 
were observed. evidence supporting the attribution of FLyING KITTeN to 
Iran is found in their secondary focus, which targets Iranian dissidents in 
foreign countries, as well as in Iran itself. 

19

Notable 
Activity

A common tactic of FLyING KITTeN is to set up spoofed login web pages 
on domains that closely resemble the legitimate pages used by the targets. 
These fake web pages serve two purposes: They log credentials entered by 
users who believe the page is a legitimate authentication mechanism, and 
then redirect to another page that prompts the download of an alleged 
patch or update that is, in fact, a copy of their remote access tool. This tool 
is used to log keystrokes, screenshots, and other user activity on infected 
systems and exfiltrates this data to an attacker-controlled server. 

The primary remote access tool used by FLyING KITTeN is a dropper that 
is written in C# .NeT and generally uses the same filename. The files to be 
dropped are stored in .NeT resources embedded in the executable. When 
executed, it extracts and deploys a backdoor Trojan, a configuration file, 
and optionally a decoy (an image or a legitimate executable). Likewise, the 
backdoor executable is also written in C#, meaning it can be decompiled 
back to a representation of the original source code. This code lists several 
classes with telling names, such as Stealer.Browser, Stealer.Keylogger, or 
Stealer.Messenger. Further, the code contains transcripts of Farsi language 
artifacts, e.g., HavijeBaba and salam!*%#, as shown below.

In addition to the aerospace/defense and dissident targeting, it appears 
that FLyING KITTeN was also engaged in broader targeting via the website 
parmanpower.com that purported to be the website of a business engaged 
in recruiting, training, and development in erbil, Iraq. The Whois record 

20

Notable 
Activity

for this website is the same as for some of the other domains related to 
the activity discussed above, which indicates that it was also in use by this 
adversary, but the actual purpose of the website is still unknown.

The registrant email that currently appears in Whois records for many of 
the observed domains is info@usa.gov.us. However, historical records show 
that the domains were originally registered under the email address keyvan.
ajaxtm@gmail.com, which ties back to an Iran-based entity called Ajax 
Security Team. This group has been known for low-level web defacements 
and SqL injection attacks for some time. Until early 2014, Ajax Security 
had an easily identifiable presence on the Internet with its own website and 
related Facebook pages. This Internet presence has decreased significantly, 
likely due to a desire to keep a lower profile now that the group is engaged 
in targeted intrusion activity.

CHARmING KITTEN
In late May, public reporting was released about an Iran-based adversary that 
leverages fake personas on social networking sites in order to conduct social 
engineering and ultimately targeted attacks against desired targets. This 
adversary, CHARMING KITTeN, has been known to CrowdStrike Intelligence 
since January 2014, when it was observed targeting individuals in the U.S. 
government and defense sectors.

CHARMING KITTeN engaged in both credential collection and malware 
operations. Credential collection occurred through spoofed websites meant 
to appear as if they were legitimate sites such as youTube.

When victims clicked on the log 
in link, they were redirected to a 
different website that prompted 
them to enter credentials for 
harvesting by the adversary.

The malware used by this 

adversary is an Internet Relay Chat (IRC)-based malware variant referred to 
as Parastoo because of the IRC password it uses. This malware possesses 

21

Notable 
Activity

an extensive command set capable of conducting reconnaissance of victim 
machines, deleting files, downloading files, and exfiltrating data.

A number of factors support CHARMING KITTeN’s nexus to Iran. First of 
all, the “Parastoo” password used by the malware is an Iranian word used 
to refer to small birds. Also, the adversary used Iran-based web hosting 
providers and infrastructure to host malicious domains. Finally, one of 
the droppers related to one of the identified Parastoo variants dropped a 
Persian-language decoy document purporting to be from Iran’s Ministry of 
Interior.

PlUGX – THE PANDA’S TOOl OF CHOICE
CrowdStrike has observed an upward trend in the use of PlugX Remote 
Access Tool (RAT) malware during 2014. Multiple adversary groups have 
used PlugX to target a number of sectors in countries surrounding China’s 
sphere of influence, particularly those involved in science & technology, 
government, and defense. Further afield, PlugX has been used in persistent 
campaigns against commercial entities in the United States, as well as to 
target organizations involved in counter-terrorism or other political 
 efforts worldwide. 

Attacks associated with GOBLIN PANDA have been observed at an 
increasing rate throughout the latter half of the year, while in the closing 
months of 2014 CrowdStrike has investigated several instances of PlugX 
activity consistent with the HURRICANe PANDA and PALe PANDA 
adversaries. Other China-based adversaries observed using PlugX in their 
operations include AURORA PANDA, NIGHTSHADe PANDA, PReDATOR 
PANDA, eMISSARy PANDA, and WeT PANDA. The upward trend in use of 
PlugX indicates an increasing confidence in the capabilities of the platform, 
justifying its continued use across multiple sectors and countries.

PlugX has existed in some form since 2008 and has evolved over time to 
offer new capabilities and control mechanisms, supported by an active 
development program. It provides an attacker with a range of functionality 
including the ability to log keystrokes; modify and copy files; capture 
screenshots or video of user activity; and perform administrative tasks such 

22

Notable 
Activity

as terminating processes, logging off users, and rebooting victim machines. 
A full command shell is also provided through access to a cmd.exe process, 
which sends output to the PlugX instance over named pipes for onward relay 
to the attacker’s Command-and-Control (C2) servers. 

While these capabilities are not unusual for a RAT and are comparable to 
those provided by Poison Ivy and other tools, PlugX also offers a range of C2 
protocols and execution options that help reduce the risk of being detected 
by network defenders. Over time, these capabilities have been augmented 
with additional releases of versions and plugins, which have in turn been 
deployed by adversaries in active and ongoing campaigns. For example, 
GOBLIN PANDA has been observed using PlugX with internal version 
numbers of 20140101 in campaigns since q2 2014, migrating to deployments 
of 20140606 versions in the second half of the year.

PlugX is most frequently delivered to targets via a spear phishing attack 
containing a malicious RTF or Word document leveraging exploit code 
for the popular CVe-2012-0158 vulnerability. Some adversary groups also 
attempted to leverage the CVe-2014-1761 vulnerability as a way to maximize 
the chance of exploitation against more recently patched systems, with 
varying degrees of success. 

Attacks have also been identified using PowerPoint and excel file formats, as 
well as self-extracting RAR files and plain executables as email attachments. 
However PlugX is installed on a victim machine, typically three files are 
dropped on the file system after exploitation to enable initial start-up of 
the malware: a legitimate, digitally signed application; an encrypted file 
containing the PlugX payload; and a malicious, dynamically-linked library 
that is used to load the malware using the Dynamic Link Library (DLL) 
side-loading technique when the legitimate application is executed. This 
methodology can provide a level of protection against some threat detection 
techniques employed by anti-virus software packages, as the parent process 
is a non-malicious executable. Often, a computer security tool such as a 
component of a commercial anti-virus application is used for this purpose, 
likely to take advantage of any process whitelisting strategies that may be in 
place on a network.

23

Notable 
Activity

Command and control of PlugX malware is facilitated using a range of 
protocols including HTTP and a binary channel over ICMP. During 2014, 
CrowdStrike observed an increased use of a newer DNS C2 module that 
transmits data as lengthy DNS queries to adversary-controlled infrastructure. 
While this mechanism deviates from some of the more typically monitored 
protocols, the verbosity of communication using this module may provide 
opportunities for detection through proactive analysis of such traffic leaving 
a network.

Further demonstrating the continued development of this platform, 
CrowdStrike observed modifications to HTTP and DNS requests produced by 
PlugX throughout the year, presenting an adapting challenge for detection 
of this threat. However, while some adversary groups have registered 
domains over the course of 2014 for use in PlugX C2 (e.g., proxyme.net), 
there has been a continued use of domain names that have been active for 
a number of years, indicating the effectiveness of this infrastructure over 
extended periods of time.

The ongoing development of PlugX provides attackers with a flexible 
capability that requires continued vigilance on the part of network defenders 
in order to detect it reliably. There is currently no clear evidence to suggest 
that use of PlugX has proliferated to adversaries attributed outside of China; 
an increase in its deployment over the last year could be a precursor to 
future worldwide use, particularly as PlugX succeeds legacy capabilities such 
as Poison Ivy as an adversary tool of choice.

24

Notable 
Activity

HACKTIvIST/NATIONAlIST
Hacktivist- and nationalist-motivated cyber actors are a third class of 
adversary tracked by the CrowdStrike Intelligence team. The goals of these 
actors may range from causing mischief for laughs to influencing opinions 
or views about a particular issue. During the course of 2014, there were a 
few notable events that demonstrate the capabilities of these actors. As 
electronic voting continues to be used by more and more countries, the 
targeting of such processes and equipment will continue to expand. 

OPERATIONS TARGETING ElECTIONS
In July 2014, the electronic voter registration system for the then- 
upcoming Tunisian presidential election suffered a cyber attack, rendering 
registrations impossible for an unknown amount of time. Sources reported 
that the authorities had control over the attack and that it was a systematic 
process, intended to strike the electoral process. This incident is yet another 
example of cyber attacks targeting electronic voting systems to  
manipulate an outcome.

CybERbERkUT
In February 2014, several bloody protests took place in Ukraine resulting 
in the ousting of the pro-Russia prime minister, and an interim government 
was created with the goal of creating closer ties with the european Union 
(eU). Following the protests, CyberBerkut, a self-proclaimed nationalistic 
hacking group, began taking credit for hacks against Ukrainian interim 
leaders. The group was extremely proactive about distributing propaganda 
decrying the new government and recruiting pro-Russia supporters to 
engage in participatory Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks against 
a multitude of Ukrainian government and media sites. These attacks were 
likely directed by Russian state services, with the CyberBerkut hacktivists 
providing a layer of plausible deniability.

Several of the DDoS attacks against Ukraine’s Central election Commission 
(CeC) coincided with Russian state media broadcasts, further suggesting 
coordination at the state level. In one case, an attack on the CeC occurred 
around the time the election results were supposed to appear, while a 
simultaneous broadcast on Russian state media appeared to show false 

25

Notable 
Activity

results where an extremist candidate won the election by a hefty margin. 
The goal of the operation was likely to cause temporary confusion over 
the immediate results of the election and to cause observers to question 
the legitimacy of the elections, which were touted as being fair and well 
equipped to withstand attacks. Had the operation been successful, it likely 
would have incited unrest in Ukraine and supported the Russian narrative 
that the elections were illegitimate and that Russian intervention was needed 
to prevent Ukraine from slipping into complete chaos. 

Whereas previous conflicts between Russia and former Soviet states 
estonia and Georgia saw a much heavier use of cyber tactics used to bring 
down critical infrastructure and disrupt communications, the efforts against 
Ukraine appeared muted and designed more for a disinformation campaign 
to stir unrest in order for Russia to intervene in Ukraine in a “peacekeeper” 
role as it did in Crimea. The widespread publicity the conflict received in 
global media along with the threat of heavy sanctions imposed by the west 
may have been a factor in preventing more aggressive cyber  
action from Russia. 

Although the campaign appeared to be ultimately unsuccessful, partly due 
to a prepared Ukrainian defense, CrowdStrike noted several interesting 
observations. Though the use of a proxy to carry out attacks for the 
purposes of plausible deniability is hardly new, the coordination of the 
propaganda distributed and Russian media reporting was particularly 
telling with regard to how Russian state services can direct many moving 
parts in unison to achieve their goals via cyber means. In addition, the 
participatory DDoS client software CyberBerkut advertised to help launch 
DDoS attacks against the Ukrainian government actually installed a 
backdoor on victims’ machines, presumably enabling Russian intelligence 
services to make a new botnet out of the compromised “volunteers”, which 
could be used in future conflicts.

CrowdStrike Intelligence also investigated targeted attacks by CyberBerkut 
against Ukrainian organizations and entities operating or doing business 
in Ukraine. CyberBerkut was first observed in March 2014 when it made 
statements about the illegitimacy of the government that took over Ukraine 

26

Notable 
Activity

upon the ousting of former president, 
Viktor yanukovych. Around this same 
time, the group launched DDoS attacks 
against state-controlled media in the 
country as well as against NATO entities 
such as the Cooperative Cyber Defense 
Center of excellence (CCDCOe). In April, 
CyberBerkut claimed responsibility for 
defacing the websites of several private 
military companies – Greystone, Triple 
Canopy, and Academi – that they claimed 
were operating on the ground in Ukraine.

CyberBerkut’s operations during 2014 were very much in line with the 
priorities of the Russian state; however, it is unclear if its activity is directly 
state sponsored or if it is an independent group carrying out attacks 
motivated by Russian nationalistic ideals.

UmBREllA REvOlUTION
First observed in late 2013, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) steadily 
increased the use of its intelligence services and cyber operations in Hong 
Kong as part of a response to the protests supporting universal suffrage and 
democracy headed by Occupy Central (和平占中). The Hong Kong protests 
fueled fears in the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which perceives them 
as a threat to its one-party rule in mainland China. This perceived threat 
likely prompted the flurry of malicious cyber activity taken against various 
organizations and citizens operating in support of the protests within Hong 
Kong, later dubbed the Umbrella Revolution. 

The methods used were a smattering of cyber tactics and human intelligence 
(HUMINT) methods to collect information about leaders of the Occupy 
Central Movement and locations of its supporters, as well as to gain an 
overall picture of Hong Kong citizens’ perception of the protests. This began 
with strategic web compromises of key websites associated with Occupy 
Central in late 2013, followed by extensive HUMINT activities carried out 
in early 2014 by suspected Ministry of State Security (MSS) officers likely 

27

Notable 
Activity

designed to elicit information from influential figures in Hong Kong and 
pressure them to support Beijing’s stance in exchange for gifts.

The protests reached a critical point when a democratic online referendum 
was held in June 2014 calling for open elections of Hong Kong’s chief 
executive. At the peak of voting, the online hosting system, Popvote 
(which at one point exceeded 500 gbps of traffic), suffered a massive 
DDoS attack. The attackers were persistent and scaled their attacks as 
defenders responded to the attack, starting with Layer 3 and 4 attacks and 
progressively using more advanced Layer 7 attacks. Though the voting 
system did persist and drew more than 780,000 votes, the apparent effort 
the PRC went through to down the referendum was substantial.

As the protests persisted, the PRC appeared to increase its attempts to 
monitor the protestors by proliferating mobile malware for both the Android 
and iOS operating systems. The mobile Remote Access Tools (mRATs) were 
authored by two individuals with extensive ties to legacy Chinese hackers 
and were likely contracted out to customize malware for the purpose of 
monitoring protestors’ communications and physical locations. 

In addition to these specialized attacks and extensive censorship of the 
Umbrella Revolution in mainland China, the PRC appears to have taken 
a shotgun approach to handling the protests as they persisted. Several 
known China-based groups including MAVeRICK PANDA, VIXeN PANDA, 
TeMPeR PANDA, SABRe PANDA, and HURRICANe PANDA were observed 
participating in activity related to the protests, suggesting a possible cross-
divisional tasking as the CCP saw support for the protests increase. This 
demonstrates the variety of approaches China has when dealing with a 
threat to the CCP’s one-party rule. Along with the mobile targeting of most 
of the citizens of Hong Kong, it shows a new level of brazenness that is 
becoming increasingly common in Chinese cyber operations.

lizardSquad/DerpTrolling
DERPTROllING

The hacking collective DerpTrolling made early 2014 media headlines 

28

Notable 
Activity

after claiming a string of DDoS attacks on multiple gaming companies 
and online gaming servers. The group likely originated out of the Steam 
gaming community, where some of its suspected members engaged in early 
DDoS attacks on rival gaming clans and their servers. DerpTrolling’s antics 
were often childish and had no clear motive other than being “for the lulz” 
and to boost their own egos. For this reason, they cannot be classified as 
hacktivists. Despite their immaturity, the collective was able to consistently 
carry out DDoS attacks on targets of their choosing, and these attacks had a 
real-world effect on the victims within the gaming community. 

The attacks were particularly noteworthy as their DDoS tool, dubbed the 
Gaben Laser Beam (GLB) after Gabe Newell, the creator of Half-Life and 
the Steam community, supposedly created an attack that exceeded 400 
gbps of network traffic utilizing a NTP reflection attack. This suggested 
DerpTrolling possessed an above-average knowledge of network protocols. 
While NTP reflection is commonly known in the security community, most 
“script kiddies” or “skids” were not aware of some of these more advanced 
techniques involving amplification, which allows for fewer devices needed to 
pull off larger DDoS attacks. 

DerpTrolling has reportedly had several run-ins with law enforcement, 
though it is unclear how much of this is verifiable versus a ploy to increase 
their notoriety. One supposed encounter resulted in the group going silent 
for several months before returning and carrying out lower-level attacks on 
the gaming community once again. Given the collective’s poor operational 
security practices, it is likely that the members are actively being tracked by 
law enforcement agencies and that they cannot continue to maintain high-
profile attacks while evading capture.

lIZARDSQUAD
Another group to begin DDoS operations targeting the gaming community 
in 2014 is LizardSquad. The group was characterized by DerpTrolling 
as much less skilled, however there may be some overlap of members 
between the groups. At this time, LizardSquad has not shown any of the 
more advanced amplification techniques used previously by DerpTrolling. 
LizardSquad quickly rose to prominence after several media stunts drew 

29

Notable 
Activity

  1 “Syrian Electronic Army hacks several 
websites, Forbes, Ferrari, Independent, Daily 
Telegraph and many other websites hijacked”, 
27 November 2014, http://www.techworm.
net/2014/11/syrian-electronic-army-hacks-sev-
eral-websites-forbes-ferrari-independent-dai-
ly-telegraph-many-websites-hijacked.html
  2 “Syrian Electronic Army hacks International 
Business Times (IBT) for alleged false coverage 
of Syria”, 18 December 2014, http://www.
techworm.net/2014/12/syrian-electronic-ar-
my-hacks-international-business-times.html
  3 See “The Syrian Army is Shrinking, and 
Assad is Running Out of Soldiers”,  
17 December 2014, http://www.ibtimes.com/
syrian-army-shrinking-assad- 
running-out-soldiers-1761914

significant attention from the press as well as law enforcement. LizardSquad 
not only began claiming to be affiliates of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
(ISIS), but also called in a bomb threat, grounding a flight on which a Sony 
Online entertainment executive was a passenger. Though the group appears 
to have no terrorist ties, their antics quickly gained them notoriety. 

LizardSquad has even poorer operational security practices than 
DerpTrolling, which allowed CrowdStrike to easily provide attribution on 
possible members of the group. In addition, the group also admitted to 
renting botnets and running booters, confirming that their skill level is 
relatively low. Despite this, the threat they posed to gaming companies was 
still noteworthy, especially when combined with terrorist threats; although 
they were bluster, they still had considerable real-world consequences.

DEADEYE jACKAl: FAR FROM DeAD
Although DeADeye JACKAL doesn’t have the kind 
of coverage it once had in the media around its high-
profile hacks, the group is still active. It still conducts the 
occasional mass defacements and is focusing on improving 

and strengthening its dissemination pathways, including migrating to more 
private social media and adding a mobile site and Android app. DeADeye 
JACKAL even developed and released its own Linux-based operating 
system, called SeANux, at the end of October 2014. 

DeADeye JACKAL continues its international censorship of online articles 
that it deems detrimental to Syria or to Syrian President Bashar Assad. On 
Thanksgiving, the group defaced just over 60 websites, including media 
websites.1 The websites were primarily from the United States and the United 
Kingdom but also included Japan, Canada, the Philippines, New Zealand, 
Mexico, and South Africa. A message on DeADeye JACKAL’s Twitter 
account showed possible motivations outside of opportunistic targeting, 
saying “The press: Please don’t pretend #ISIS are civilians”.

The most recent cyber attack by DeADeye JACKAL was on 18 December 
2014, when the group hacked the website of the International Business 
Times to remove an article due to its coverage of Syria, which DeADeye 

30

Notable 
Activity

  4 http://vk.com/syrianelectronicarmy
 5  https://ello.co/syrianelectronicarmy
  6 https://www.pinterest.com/officialsea/
 7 http://instagram.com/official_sea2
  8 https://www.youtube.com/user/SEAOfficialChannel
 9  https://twitter.com/official_sea16
  10 http://sea.sy/rss/en

JACKAL perceived as false.2  The deleted article discussed depleting military 
resources of President Assad, in terms of soldiers, since the start of the U.S. 
campaign in Syria against the Islamic State. The article, however, was soon 
reposted by the International Business Times and remains available.3 

DeADeye JACKAL used to be limited to operating through its website, 
Twitter account, and Facebook account, which proved problematic in some 
ways since their communications could be terminated more easily when 
Twitter or Facebook decided to shut down their accounts. It became a joke 
to DeADeye JACKAL how many Facebook pages it could start up that 
would be shut down. However, DeADeye JACKAL did realize that more 
stable and varied dissemination pathways for their messaging were needed. 
Additionally, the group decided it also needed communications that would 
have less chance of being monitored by its enemies.

In September 2013, DeADeye JACKAL changed its email provider from 
Gmail to Mail.ru. The change was likely a result of suspicions that their emails 
were being monitored in light of the leaks made by edward Snowden earlier 
in 2013. In other moves to protect privacy, DeADeye JACKAL opened up 
accounts with VK, formerly VKontakte4  (the Russia-based social media 
website similar to Facebook owned by Mail.ru Group and ello5), a new 
social media website that boasts that it does not sell ads or its users’ data 
to advertisers. It also does not allow any data mining against the users of 
its site. DeADeye JACKAL also launched a mobile site for its website and 
an Android app. These are all in addition to the group’s already-established 
accounts on Pinterest6, Instagram7, youTube8, and Twitter9.

Most notably, the group developed and released its own operating system, 
called SeANux. SeANux offers little overall improvement over other Linux-
based systems like Kali or BackTrack. SeANux automatically loads a desktop 
system monitor that makes several network requests, creating a sidebar. The 
sidebar provides the user information about the system, running processes, 
weather (Damascus, DI, Syria), currency rates, and some other high-level 
information. Also on this side bar is a small window with a feed of news from 
DeADeye JACKAL’s website10. 

31

Notable 
Activity

The most notable aspect of SeANux is the tools it offers. SeANux offers 
some standard offensive/pentesting tools, including Metasploit Framework, 
SqLMap, nMap, Aircrack, and John the Ripper. There is also an included 
directory with other miscellaneous PHP and Perl scripts, however most of 
these do not appear to be created by DeADeye JACKAL.
 
SeANux also offers a custom set of offensive/pentesting tools including:

• SEA SHELL - A basic web shell. 
•  UPLOADER - A web application for uploading files to the system where the 

web app is hosted.

•  MYSQL EXECUTOR - A web application for executing commands on local 

and remote MySqL servers.

•  JOOMLA & WORDPRESS SCANNER - A web application for checking 

whether a remote system is running WordPress or Joomla.

•  EXECUTER - A very rudimentary webshell for executing system  

commands where the web app is hosted.

•  DDOS ATTACKER - A basic DDoS web application. The adversary  
specifies an IP address they want to flood with TCP or UDP traffic.
•  WORDPRESS BRUTE FORCE ATTACKER - A web application for 

preforming simple brute force attack against a WordPress site.
•  JOOMLA BRUTE FORCE ATTACKER - A web application for  

preforming simple brute force against Joomla sites.

•  WEB SCANNER - A web application for scanning a remote web server for 

files and folders.

•  ORACLE QUERY EXECUTOR - A web application for executing commands 

on local and remote Oracle database servers.

•  ACP FINDER - A web application to scan for what are believed to be admin 

control panels.

•  BACK CONNECTION - A web application for creating a reverse shell 

connection allowing another computer to control where the app is hosted.

•  5.2.3 SAFEMODE BYPASS / 5.2.11-5.3.0 SAFE MODE BYPASS - Both are 

tools for attempting to bypass some of PHP’s built-in security.

DeADeye JACKAL has not attempted the ruse that Anonymous did in 
2012 when they released Anonymous-OS, which was found to be riddled 
with Trojans. SeANux does connect to some DeADeye JACKAL-controlled 

32

Notable 
Activity

resources such as their RSS feed, images in the webshells, and a Firefox 
custom SeANux homepage. It is possible for DeADeye JACKAL to monitor 
to see who is connecting to these resources, but outside of that, the 
operating system functions normally.

FRATERNAl jACKAl
In 2012 and 2013, a four-phased attack known as Operation Ababil, or 
OpAbabil, was conducted by a group of Iranian actors targeting U.S. financial 
institutions with DDoS attacks.

This adversary, which CrowdStrike tracks under the name FRATeRNAL 
JACKAL, has been suspected of having ties to the Iranian government. It 
has been known to increase attack volume during periods of economic 
tension between Iran and western countries. Despite suspicion of political 
motivations, the group has publicly attested in several Pastebin.com posts 
that the motivation for these attacks are negative depictions of the Muslim 
Prophet Muhammad in several youTube videos. 

Attacks from this adversary group have been primarily conducted using 
a botnet of public-facing web servers that have been exploited through 
vulnerable Content Management Systems (CMS). Unlike traditional botnets 
in which infected hosts connect to control servers for tasking, within 
FRATeRNAL JACKAL’s botnet, nodes are directly tasked by the adversary 
through multiple layers of infrastructure. 

CrowdStrike Intelligence continued to actively investigate this adversary 
during 2014, specifically seeking means by which it propagated its botnet. 
In October, a PHP script was identified in connection with this adversary. 
This script is used for scanning lists of domains by parsing each domain’s 
robots.txt file to identify any server running the CMS Joomla. Domains 
identified from this script are directly posted to a hard-coded control server, 
something not seen previously by CrowdStrike with this adversary’s toolkit.

Normally, performing server reconnaissance by parsing the robots.txt file 
of a server is a trivial task. However, when looked at in the context of this 
adversary’s strategic operations, it suggests that the adversary is not only 

33

Notable 
Activity

using their first-stage infrastructure for offensive actions against targets, but 
also for further expansion of their botnet.

Despite FRATeRNAL JACKAL no longer publicly posting motivations and 
notices of upcoming attacks to Pastebin, their botnet remains online and 
capable of performing attacks. It is likely that in the event of future tensions 
between Iran and western countries, this group may publicly resurface and 
continue their attack campaigns. 

2014 ZERO-DAY ACTIvITY
The occurrence of a zero-day, or a previously unknown vulnerability being 
exploited in the wild, is generally an unusual occurrence. These events almost 
always tell an interesting story when they are initially discovered. During the 
course of 2014, there were hundreds of newly identified vulnerabilities that 
were categorized by Mitre under the Common Vulnerabilities and exposures 
(CVe) system. Many of these were identified by researchers or vendors 
through auditing and other proactive security reviews. 

In some cases, the vulnerabilities were first identified being used by 
adversaries (the development and proliferation of those vulnerabilities are 
a fascinating component of the threat landscape). There were several such 
events that occurred this year; three are particularly interesting from an 
adversary perspective, namely CVe-2014-0322, CVe-2014-4113, and CVe-
2014-1761. There were numerous interesting exploits identified this year, 
many used by various adversaries such as the SSL Heartbleed attack (CVe-
2014-0160) and the ShellShock Bourne Again Shell (BASH) vulnerabilities 
(CVe-2014-6271, CVe-2014-6277, CVe-2014-6278, CVe-2014-7169, CVe-
2014-7186, and CVe-2014-7187). These exploits were not necessarily 
exemplary of the related adversary narrative that helps to determine the 
“who” behind the attacks that CrowdStrike focuses on from an intelligence 
standpoint.

CVE-2014-0322 - INTERNET EXPLORER  
ARBITRARY CODE EXECUTION 
This zero-day vulnerability in Microsoft Internet explorer allowed code 
execution via specially crafted JavaScript code, making it ideal for Strategic 

34

Notable 
Activity

Web Compromise (SWC) or drive-by operations. There were two primary 
campaigns associated with CVe-2014-0322.

The first to be publicly identified occurred in February 2014 and was hosted 
on the website of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). This incident 
delivered a fairly common, publicly available RAT called ZxShell, which 
connected to a C2 at newss.effers.com. This is a domain that CrowdStrike 
associates with the AURORA PANDA adversary.

Investigation into the VFW incident led to the discovery of other sites 
(savmpet.com, gifas.assso.net, and icbcqsz.com) also hosting this exploit 
code. These sites not only shared the same IP address as each other, but also 
contained the same content that was taken from the website for the French 
aerospace industries association, Groupement des Industries Françaises 
Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS). The dates visible on these webpages 
and those dates found in the pages’ source code indicated that they were 
created on 17 January 2014, which predated the VFW incident by nearly a 
month. However, this operation utilized drive-by tactics rather than SWC 
because the sites hosting the code were controlled by the adversary and not 
compromised legitimate sites.

The GIFAS-related activity delivered a different malware payload (Sakula) 
than the VFW incident (ZxShell). The Sakula payload communicated with 
an entirely different C2 infrastructure than the ZxShell, oa.ameteksen.com. 
This indicates that a different adversary was responsible for the GIFAS-
related SWC operation. Further investigation into this activity showed a 
number of similarities to a 2012 zero-day (CVe-2012-4792) SWC campaign 
that leveraged the website of a U.S.-based manufacturer, Capstone Turbine. 
These similarities were: the use of Sakula malware, GIFAS-based subdomains 
related to both incidents, and the use of zero-day vulnerabilities. At the end 
of 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence also discovered potential links between this 
adversary and its HURRICANe PANDA adversary (discussed in more detail 
below); however, evaluation of these connections is still ongoing.

CVE-2014-4113 – LOCAL PRIVILEgE ESCALATION 
every now and then, an adversary reveals their trump card when they 

35

Notable 
Activity

become desperate for access to a victim’s infrastructure. This occurred 
in October 2014 when the Chinese adversary tracked by CrowdStrike as 
HURRICANe PANDA deployed a tool called Win64.exe on a compromised 
system that was used to invoke other programs with elevated privileges.

Analysis of the Win64.exe binary revealed that it exploits a previously 
unknown vulnerability to elevate its privileges to those of the SySTeM user 
and then create a new process with these access rights to run the command 
that was passed as an argument. The file itself is only 55 kilobytes in size and 
contains just a few functions. 

First, the exploit gained kernel execution by corrupting memory in the 
Windows window manager and used this increased level of authority to 
overwrite an access token in the ePROCeSS structure of the user-mode 
process with that of the SySTeM process. From this elevation, any command 
passed to the executable was executed with elevated privileges. The 
vulnerability was present in both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures of Windows 
from Windows XP to Windows 7.

The code to perform these steps is extremely well written and fully reliable. 
The adversary has gone through considerable effort to minimize the 
chance of its discovery. The exploit tool was only deployed when absolutely 
necessary during the intrusion operations, and it was deleted immediately 
after use.

A build timestamp of the Win64.exe binary of 3 May 2014 suggests that 
the vulnerability was actively exploited in the wild for at least five months 
prior to discovery. What is more, after being able to characterize the 
exploit, earlier versions were found that indicate constant development of 
privilege-escalation tools. In fact, some tools were found with exploits for 
similar vulnerabilities that have been addressed by Microsoft in patches 
released earlier in 2014. These tools share an overall structure with the 
new one, indicating that the same code was used to weaponize privilege-
escalation exploits for different security bugs. These observations suggest 
that HURRICANe PANDA maintains an arsenal of exploits for unpatched 
privilege-escalation vulnerabilities. 

36

Notable 
Activity

This case underlines the necessity of tight endpoint monitoring in order to 
detect adversary behavior like this. Within days of discovering the use of 
the exploit, CrowdStrike reported the vulnerability and a proof of concept to 
Microsoft, which subsequently released security bulletin MS14-058, as well as 
patches for all affected platforms.

CvE-2014-1761 - mICROSOFT wORD  
REmOTE CODE EXECUTION
In 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence spent a significant amount of time 
investigating operations that leveraged the new Microsoft Word exploit, 
CVe-2014-1761. The exploit for this vulnerability was a bit complex, but if 
successful it allowed for remote code execution. Cybercrime adversaries 
were the first to use the exploit in the wild; however, its use soon proliferated 
to Russia- and China-based targeted intrusion adversaries.

The proliferation of an exploit such as CVe-2014-1761 across several 
adversaries is not unprecedented, but it does illustrate the possible ways 
in which actors are connected. In this instance, cybercrime actors were the 
first observed using the exploit in the wild. Several weeks later targeted 
intrusion adversaries began leveraging it in their operations. The most likely 
explanation for this is that targeted intrusion adversaries were able  
to rediscover and develop the exploit code once a vendor advisory  
was released. 

37

Notable 
Activity

This seems to be the most likely because Microsoft released its initial 
advisory on the exploit in late March, and targeted activity began in early 
April. However, another possible proliferation pathway for the exploit is a 
direct pass from a cybercrime actor to a targeted intrusion actor. It is also 
possible that individuals involved in cybercrime operations are also carrying 
out targeted intrusion operations and were able to use the exploit for  
both purposes. 

CrowdStrike Intelligence also discovered a simple builder program,  
which allowed malicious actors to automatically build CVe-2014-1761  
exploit documents.

This allows for a decoy document and malicious executable to be combined 
with a malicious CVe-2014-1761 document. The Chinese characters show that 
it was meant for use by Chinese adversaries, and could explain how it  
so easily proliferated among China-based adversaries.

PITTy PANDA is one actor who actively developed the capability to use this 
exploit. This actor is interesting in that they exhibit a remarkably disparate 
level of sophistication. On the one hand, the actor has proven to be one 
of the early groups that are able to successfully weaponize documents 
with an exploit for CVe-2014-1761, showing a notable level of competence 
in this specific matter. On the other hand, this adversary exhibits lack of 

38

Notable 
Activity

consistence or expertise in certain other areas. For example, the re-use of C2 
domains ending in .tw certainly sticks out in target environments unrelated 
to Taiwan. This was observed in attacks against western aerospace and 
defense companies during 2014. 

Recent CrowdStrike analysis on PITTy PANDA has revealed that this actor 
has been operating for a longer time frame than previously assumed. 
The activity likely goes back as far as June 2005, resulting in a total 
operational window of more than nine years. PITTy PANDA has used at least 
three different RAT families, some of which have undergone continuous 
development.

PITTy PANDA has recently shifted their target profile toward the aerospace 
and defense sectors, introducing a new aspect this actor’s operations. 
The overall goal of much of PITTy PANDA’s past activity appeared to be 
intelligence-gathering operations of a political nature, but more recent 
operation point more toward the theft of intellectual property. The 
development and adaptation of client-side exploits such as CVe-2014-1761 
may indicate that this actor is seeking to further expand operations by 
investing in technical capabilities to pursue harder targets than they have 
previously attacked.

Event-Driven Operations
mAlAySIA AIRlINES INCIDENTS

Malaysia Airlines suffered two catastrophic incidents in 2014. In March, one of 
its flights (MH370) from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing mysteriously disappeared 
less than an hour after takeoff. In July, another of its flights (MH17) from 
Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was shot down while flying over a conflict zone 
in Ukraine. These events received large amounts of attention in the press, 
and the controversy and mystery surrounding them made the incidents ideal 
for targeted intrusion adversaries to use in their operations.

Operations leveraging the MH370 incident in spear phish email began within 
days of the accident. The TeMPeR PANDA adversary was particularly prolific 
in its use of MH370-related emails to deliver malicious documents that 

39

Notable 
Activity

dropped malware connecting to a known TeMPeR PANDA C2 address, www.
verizon.proxydns.com. Activity from the LOTUS PANDA adversary and an 
actor using Naikon malware was also observed.

Additionally, CrowdStrike identified an incident carried out by an adversary 
believed to have a nexus to Pakistan. This attack used a malicious zip archive 
containing a file named Malaysia Airline MH370 hijacked by Pakistan.scr. It 
delivered malware more commonly known as BitterBug, which used a C2 at 
IP address 199.91.173.45.

Operations related to the MH17 crash appeared to be more limited, but also 
began within days of the incident. A number of incidents from China-based 
adversaries were observed like the one identified on 22 July 2014 leveraging 
a decoy document concerning the black boxes on MH17 and NetTraveler 
malware connecting to a C2 at www.gobackto.net. The Russia-based 
adversary known to CrowdStrike as FANCy BeAR also piggybacked on the 
MH17 disaster, targeting victims with the Sofacy malware dropped alongside 
a document concerning the cessation of hostilities around the crash site.

CONFlICT IN UKRAINE
The conflict in Ukraine has been the motivation for a significant amount of 
targeted intrusion operations and other malicious cyber activity. The conflict 
was leveraged to conduct operations targeting entities in Ukraine, Russia, 
and other countries with interests in the region.

China-based adversaries were active in targeting around this conflict. A 
significant amount of the activity from Chinese actors was related to the 
MH17 disaster discussed above. While other malicious operations related to 
these events targeted Ukrainian entities, most of the activity from China-
based actors appeared to be targeted at Russian organizations. Numerous 
incidents were identified leveraging Russian-language lures with content 
concerning security in Ukraine, such as the one below that was observed in 
an incident from September using PlugX malware calling to chromeupdate.
authorizeddns.org and googlesupport.proxydns.com. 

40

Notable 
Activity

One of the primary reasons for this increase in Russian targeting by China-
based adversaries is likely that ties between China and Russia have recently 
been growing stronger. In May 2014, the two countries agreed on a $400 
billion deal for Russia to supply natural gas to China. Additionally, they 
reached agreements over the construction of a bridge between the countries 
and the use of a port in eastern Russia; they also revealed a plan to set up 
GPS ground stations in each other’s country. This interaction between the 
two countries increasingly makes Russia a target of interest for Chinese 
targeted intrusion operations.

In addition to the China-based activity, CrowdStrike Intelligence also 
identified an interesting set of targeted activity apparently focused on 
targets within Russia. The actor responsible employs a rather complex piece 
of malware that uses polymorphic DLLs and filenames customized on a 
per-deployment basis. The malware was dropped alongside a wide variety 
of malicious documents containing exploit code for either CVe-2012-0158 
or CVe-2014-1761. Related decoy documents were both Russian and english 
language and contained content pertaining to Russia such as the Ukrainian 
conflict, an advertisement for the sale of a car from the German embassy 
in Moscow, and an invitation to a Russian university conference on space 
technology. The actor abuses legitimate cloud infrastructure for its C2.

41

Notable 
Activity

HIGH vOlUmE OF SOUTHEAST ASIA TARGETING
Governments in Southeast Asia and organizations doing business in the 
region have been popular targets for China-based targeted intrusion 
operations for years. China is generally interested in Southeast Asia because 
of its proximity and its desire to monitor activity in the region in order 
to retain a strategic advantage. However, during 2014, China was more 
specifically motivated to carry out targeted intrusion operations in the 
region by tensions between it and other Southeast Asian nations, primarily 
Vietnam and the Philippines, due to disputes over territorial rights in the 
South China Sea.

The South China Sea has long been a source of tension between China and 
other Southeast Asian nations. The United Nations (UN) attempted to ease 
these tensions in its 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, which granted 
countries in the region rights to marine and energy resources within a certain 
range of their coast. This was meant to give all countries in the region some 
claim to vital trade routes and to the vast energy resources believed to exist 
there. China disputes the UN-granted rights and stakes a historical claim to 
almost the entire South China Sea.

Tensions really boiled over in May 2014 when a Chinese state-owned 
energy company placed an oil rig, HD-981, in Vietnamese territorial 
waters. The rig was deployed close to the Paracel Islands, which are 
claimed by both China and Vietnam. The presence of the rig precipitated 
continuous clashes between Chinese and Vietnamese vessels, violent 
protests of Chinese businesses in Vietnam, and elevated tensions 
between China and other nations in the region such as the Philippines.

It was during this time in May 2014 when China-based targeted intrusion 
activity against entities in Southeast Asia increased significantly. 
The uptick was likely due to Chinese interest in monitoring reaction 
of government and other organizations in the region. Numerous 

adversaries (primarily GOBLIN PANDA, VIXeN PANDA, LOTUS PANDA, 
PReDATOR PANDA, and PIRATe PANDA) and numerous malware variants 
(PlugX, Poison Ivy, Mirage, enfal, and Naikon) were observed being used in 
these operations.

42

Notable 
Activity

Observed 
tArgeting 
by cOuntry 
- MAy 2014

Observed 
tArgeting 
by cOuntry 
- june 2014

 
CrowdStrike Intelligence observed that GOBLIN PANDA and VIXeN PANDA 
were the adversaries most actively targeting Southeast Asia. GOBLIN 
PANDA activity was heavily weighted towards Vietnamese targets. This 
adversary used multiple malware variants during this period, but over time 
switched over almost entirely to PlugX malware. 

Based on the decoy documents used in the incidents, it appears that 
Vietnamese government organizations were a primary target (although 
private sector targeting of foreign companies was observed as well), as the 

43

Notable 
Activity

decoys were often Vietnamese government documents. The screenshot 
below is an example of one of these decoys, with this one related to 
Vietnam’s Fisheries Protection Department. A reference to the HD-981 oil 
rig can be seen in the first sentence. The C2 domain for the malware used in 
conjunction with this document was dns.dubkill.com.

In the regional targeting surrounding these events, VIXeN PANDA activity 
was observed focusing mostly on the Philippines, particularly in the area of 
defense. Pictured below is a decoy document from an incident identified in 
April. The only content is a header marked “Secret” with the letterhead for 
the Philippines Naval Operation Center. The malware used in this incident was 
Mirage, installed using DLL side-loading, which takes advantage of the search 
order the operating system goes through to load DLLs. This particular sample 

44

Notable 
Activity

used NVIDIA-related files often seen with PlugX to side-load the Mirage 
payload. The C2 for the malware in this incident was todaynews.dns-dns.com.

The Southeast Asia activity declined dramatically at the end of August, 
which coincided with the time that China removed HD-981 from Vietnamese 
waters. A slight spike occurred in October when PIRATe PANDA and VIXeN 
PANDA stepped up targeting of Vietnam and the Philippines again, possibly 
due to arms acquisitions by Vietnam meant to bolster its maritime security 
capabilities. Since that time, sporadic activity with a Southeast Asia focus 
was observed, but nothing at a sustained level like that which was observed 
from May to October.

It is highly likely that tensions will increase again as the disputes over 
territory and resources in the South China Sea remain unresolved. 

DEEP PANDA THINK TANK TARGETING
In July 2014, CrowdStrike publicly reported on malicious 
activity linked to the DeeP PANDA adversary at two U.S.-
based think tanks.11  This activity followed typical DeeP 
PANDA Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) with 

45

 11 http://blog.crowdstrike.com/
deep-thought-chinese-targeting-na-
tional-security-think-tanks/

Notable 
Activity

what, at the time, was a novel technique utilizing PowerShell to download 
MadHatter malware on victim machines. Although the TTPs were typical, 
the specific targeting at each institution provided insight into how these 
adversaries may be tasked in their operations.

Analysis of each incident revealed that, up until mid-June 2014, the 
adversary was focused on experts on Asian and Chinese policy at each 
affected institution. This targeting is consistent with the objectives likely 
imposed on Chinese intelligence collection during this time in support of 
global intelligence collection surrounding the ongoing HD-981 incident. 
During mid-June, DeeP PANDA clearly and immediately shifted focus from 
Asia-related issues to Middle east-related issues. This shift coincided with a 
significant uptick in attacks from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), 
particularly an attack on the Baiji oil refinery in Iraq. 

At one institution, the actor focused on a target with expertise in China’s 
natural resource consumption and energy sourcing requirements. Additional 
targets at this institution included an executive assistant and network 
engineers and administrators. The targeting of an executive assistant would 
likely provide access to information on high-level strategy and operational 
information, and targeting of network administrators would provide 
information useful in lateral movement and establishing persistence.

At the second institution, targeted individuals had extensive careers in the 
U.S. government and intelligence community, had written on U.S. Middle east 
policy, and had given congressional testimony on ISIS issues. The targets 
in this instance could provide information on potential U.S. strategy and 
possibly even communications between the institution and U.S.  
government entities.

The rapid pivot between individuals at these institutions focused on Asia 
issues to individuals focused on Middle east issues shows how quickly these 
adversaries are able to react to new tasking. The targeting in these cases 
appear to be in line with interests of government organizations who would 
desire information on strategic options that the U.S. might be considering 
with respect to ISIS. Information from these kinds of institutions would also 
be useful to companies doing business in the Middle east.

46

Notable 
Activity

wORlD CUP
The biggest event of the year in terms of media coverage and sheer global 
attention was the FIFA World Cup played in Brazil between 12 June and 13 
July. events of this scale usually attract malicious actors who leverage them 
for purposes of deceiving targets into credentials theft, compromise of 
networks for espionage, and other objectives.

CrowdStrike covered the run-up to the World Cup with reporting that 
outlined potential threats to the event. Chief among these was that of 
hacktivists attacking or defacing websites related to the Cup. Designated 
adversary GHOST JACKAL was detected partaking in said actions prior to 
the beginning of the tournament, which also saw large-scale street protests 
against the government. 

Later, during the Cup, CrowdStrike’s warning came to fruition when the 
websites for the Cup itself and for Brazil’s Federal Police were both taken 
down.12  Additionally, CrowdStrike observed some limited World Cup-related 
targeted intrusion activity from China-based actors LOTUS PANDA and 
VIXeN PANDA, but the level of activity from such actors was not as high  
as anticipated. 

47

  12 Hackers Take Down World 
Cup Site in Brazil, 20 June 
2014, http://bits.blogs.nytimes.
com/2014/06/20/hackers-take-
down-world-cup-site-in-brazil/

Know the 
Adversary

Know your adversary to 

better protect your network. 
detect, deter, and defend 

against today’s most 
sophisticated attackers.

Know
the 
Adversary 

13 http://resources.crowdstrike.com/putterpanda/

Effect of Public Reporting on Adversary Activity
In the 2013 Global Threat Report, CrowdStrike 
discussed a Russian adversary designated 
eNeRGeTIC BeAR. Beginning in July 2014, several 
security vendors disclosed additional information 
on this actor. 

This adversary has previously demonstrated more than a basic 
awareness of operational security (OPSeC). Unsurprisingly, 
eNeRGeTIC BeAR quickly abandoned their compromised website 
C2 infrastructure they had acquired for these operations. Although 
infected machines would continue to beacon to the C2 servers, no 
further tasking would be provided. 

Since the public disclosures, no new builds of the malware used 
by eNeRGeTIC BeAR – primarily the Havex and SySMain RATs – 
have been observed. This toolset has seen several evolutionary 
developments over a period spanning at least five years, and its 
loss is likely to cause the adversary to enter a retooling phase. The 
underlying intelligence requirements driving their operations are 
unlikely to change, however, and it is likely that eNeRGeTIC BeAR 
will re-emerge with a new toolset in the future.

In June 2014, CrowdStrike published13 public reporting detailing the 
attribution of an adversary designated as PUTTeR PANDA to the 
12th Bureau of the 3rd General Staff Department of the People’s 
Liberation Army, also known as Unit 61486. This attribution was 
facilitated by one of the PUTTeR PANDA operators providing 
pictures of the unit’s operational base on social media, using 
accounts that could be associated with C2 domains – a serious 
OPSeC mistake. After the publication of CrowdStrike’s report, the 
social media account containing photos of the unit’s base was 
deleted, and PUTTeR PANDA appears to have stopped using the 
tools previously identified by CrowdStrike.

49

Know
the 
Adversary 

Another significant public disclosure of an adversary group was the 
publication of a report on Unit 61398 (a.k.a. COMMeNT PANDA) in 
February 2013. While this group also initially “went dark” following 
the report’s public release, there have been indications that this 
actor was in operation again by October 2013.

The disclosure of information regarding ongoing operations has 
been hotly contested in the information security community. Many 
attribute such disclosures to marketing or other self-promoting 
behavior. While the motivations surrounding public disclosures are 
certainly open to discussion, these observations indicate that public 
disclosures to date have had a significant impact on advanced 
adversary operations. 

It is becoming apparent that the priorities levied by organizations 
sponsoring cyber espionage are unaffected by such disclosures. 
It is highly likely that groups who have been publicly reported on 
will return to the same activities with new toolsets, if they have not 
already. CrowdStrike’s approach to public disclosure balances the 
benefits of disrupting operations with the risk of losing visibility into 
adversary actions by driving a change in TTPs. 

This balance is accomplished by looking at the existing publicly 
available reporting, and what the likely reaction by the adversary 
is. This is then reviewed in terms of Intelligence Gain/Loss (IGL); 
among other things, this includes the potential intelligence value of 
a disclosure, what are potential impacts to visibility of the adversary, 
and how does this impact the ability to protect customers? Forcing 
the adversary to retool means the cost of doing business has gone 
up; they must invest in new tools, infrastructure, and potentially 
training, which may have consequences for how brazen the 
adversary will be in the future.

HURRICANE PANDA
HURRICANe PANDA is an advanced China-based adversary actively 
targeting Internet services, engineering, and aerospace companies. 

50

Know
the 
Adversary 

 14  http://blog.crowdstrike.com/
french-connection-french-aerospace-
focused-cve-2014-0322-attack-shares-
similarities-2012/
  15 http://blog.crowdstrike.com/crowd-
strike-discovers-use-64-bit-zero-day-
privilege-escalation-exploit-cve-2014-
4113-hurricane-panda/

Since February 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence has observed 
HURRICANe PANDA leverage at least two zero-day exploits, a 
unique DNS resolution technique, and tools traditionally used by 
Chinese actors. Once inside a victim’s network, this adversary 
seeks to gain legitimate credentials to move laterally and establish 
RDP sessions to achieve their objectives. Based on their technical 
capabilities, HURRICANe PANDA is currently one of the most 
advanced Chinese actors tracked by CrowdStrike.

Zero-days, Exploits, and web vulnerabilities
As stated above, CrowdStrike Intelligence observed HURRICANe 
PANDA leveraging two zero-day exploits, indicating that this 
adversary has above-average capability or access to exploit 
developers. First, in February 2014 this actor was observed using 
SWC tactics to gain initial footholds into victim networks via CVe-
2014-0322. Successful exploitation during this campaign led victims 
to install the Sakula malware. Much of the targeting in this campaign 
appeared to be against the French aerospace sector.14 

In October 2014, HURRICANe PANDA used CVe-2014-4113 to 
escalate privileges on already-compromised 64-bit Windows 
machines.15 Their exploitation of this vulnerability marked the first 
time it was observed in the wild. 

In addition to zero-day exploits, HURRICANe PANDA has also used 
three other privilege-escalation exploits and another remote code 
execution exploit.

Finally, in another case, HURRICANe PANDA gained initial access 
to a victim via a SqL injection vulnerability. They then used the 
vulnerability to upload a simple Chopper webshell script to gain 
additional access, move laterally to the corporate network, and 
install additional RATs.

THE RAT PACK
HURRICANe PANDA makes use of several Remote Access Tools 

51

Know
the 
Adversary 

(RATs). Over the course of the year, CrowdStrike Intelligence 
observed this adversary employing Sakula, Gh0st RAT, PlugX, and 
HiKit. While Gh0st RAT has been widely available for many years, 
the other RATs have exclusively been tied to China-based actors. 

This actor also made extensive use of Chopper webshell; this 
provides the equivalent functionality of a RAT for adversary control 
of webservers. Chopper can exist in a rather simple form:

<?php eval($_POST[“chopper”]); ?>

where “chopper” is an attacker-selected password of sorts. This 
simple one-line script gives an attacker access to a webserver from 
which they can deploy privilege-escalation tools, move laterally, 
or deploy more complex scripts to interact with databases on the 
webserver. 

While PlugX usage has increased significantly over the past year 
among China-based actors, HURRICANe PANDA’s usage of the 
tool was notable for two reasons. First, when configuring PlugX, 
the attacker is given the option of using up to four DNS servers 
of their choosing. Knowing this, HURRICANe PANDA discovered 
a unique service offered by California-based Internet service 
provider Hurricane electric. By abusing Hurricane electric’s free 
DNS service, the actors were able to resolve popular domains like 
www.pinterest.com, adobe.com, and github.com. Using legitimate 
domains presumably would fool incident responders into believing 
the communications were benign. 

HURRICANe PANDA leveraged PlugX’s custom DNS feature to use 
the free DNS hosting services provided by Hurricane electric to 
resolve these domains to PlugX C2 nodes instead of their legitimate 
IP addresses. Hurricane electric quickly took action to prevent the 
abuse that allowed DNS resolution for legitimate domains.

52

Know
the 
Adversary 

screenshOt 
Of plugx 
user 
interfAce

gOOgle prOjects 
used by hurricAne 
pAndA tO serve 
encOded c2 servers

The other unique C2 resolution method employed by HURRICANe 
PANDA was the use of Google Code as a host for an encoded string 
containing the real PlugX C2 node as shown below.

Despite this method of C2 server distribution being available in 
PlugX since at least 2012, its usage is not common. In this case, the 
PlugX malware will request one of the Google Code projects, search 
the page for a string delimited with “DZKS” and “DZJS”, and decode 

53

Know
the 
Adversary 

  16 http://blog.crowdstrike.com/adver-
sary-tricks-crowdstrike-treats/

the string. The decoded string contains the protocol over which 
to communicate, as well as the IP address and port pair. When the 
above strings are decoded, the following IP addresses are used as 
PlugX C2 servers:

• 
• 
• 
• 

223.29.248.9 
202.181.133.237 
61.78.34.179 
203.135.134.243 

Post-Exploitation and Exfiltration
After HURRICANe PANDA has established a foothold on a victim’s 
network, they then seek legitimate credentials via tools such 
as Windows Credential Viewer, Windows Credential editor, or 
Mimikatz. Once credentials have been obtained, the actor tends to 
use these for access to the network instead of interacting with their 
RAT, thus reducing their footprint and allowing them to appear as 
legitimate VPN users.

If credentials cannot be obtained, HURRICANe PANDA will often 
rely on RDP. First, they will replace the sticky keys file (using the 
sethc.exe hack16) with a copy of their preferred Chinese version of 
cmd.exe on the victim machine. Then they will access the victim 
computer over RDP, and, when presented with a login screen, IT 
will invoke the sticky keys mechanism and be presented with an 
administrative command shell. Furthermore, PlugX contains a 
reverse-RDP tunneling capability that HURRICANe PANDA has 
employed.

exfiltration by HURRICANe PANDA follows a simple pattern often 
performed by China-based adversaries. First, files of interest are 
compressed and password protected using RAR. Next, they stage 
the files at a convenient location. Finally, they exfiltrate the files 
from the network via FTP. 

54

Know
the 
Adversary 

 
Possible Connections to AURORA PANDA
CrowdStrike Intelligence is currently evaluating possible 
connections between HURRICANe PANDA and AURORA PANDA. 
There is currently no definitive link, but indicators of compromise 
linked to AURORA PANDA have been discovered on networks 
also compromised by HURRICANe PANDA. Other connections 
include: similar toolsets, access to zero-day exploits, and possible 
infrastructure connections.

HURRICANe PANDA is among the more capable China-based 
adversaries, and run-ins with this actor should be treated with the 
utmost concern.

GOTHIC PANDA
GOTHIC PANDA is another advanced Chinese adversary that 
CrowdStrike Intelligence tracked throughout 2014. This adversary 
has been observed targeting a number of high-profile victims in  
key sectors including financial, technology, NGO/international, and 
energy.

In early May 2014, CrowdStrike observed this adversary mounting 
a campaign in which spear phishing messages were used to direct 
targets to landing pages that would exploit a zero-day Use-After-
Free vulnerability in Internet explorer. The following is a brief 
timeline of important events in this campaign:
 

DATE

EVENT

24 April 2014

earliest observed resolution for subdomain in attack

25 April 2014

phishing messages sent to targets

26 April 2014

Microsoft issues advisory for vulnerability cve-2014-1776

01 MAy 2014

Out-of-band patch issued by Microsoft

55

Know
the 
Adversary 

In addition to targeting of individuals within targeted organizations, 
phishing messages from this adversary were observed being sent 
to mailing lists for specialized topics such as high-performance 
computing, weather metadata software, and pre-medical programs 
at educational institutions.

An observed phishing message is show below:

Victims in these campaigns were infected with the implant known 
by the anti-virus name Pirpi, which has been seen in use since 2009. 
Pirpi provides the adversary with a traditional set of RAT features 
that allow the adversary to exfiltrate and deploy files, along with 
remote shell access to a compromised system.

GOTHIC PANDA is considered by CrowdStrike Intelligence to be 
one of the more advanced adversaries tracked. Over time, the Pirpi 
implant has improved to feature more aggressive anti-analysis 
techniques, and the network communication with control servers 
has improved to hinder network-based detection.

While investigating GOTHIC PANDA, CrowdStrike Intelligence 
identified a strong code overlap between the Pirpi implant and 

56

Know
the 
Adversary 

a defunct malware known by the anti-virus name Dreammon (or 
DreamClick). This malware possesses a feature set more in line 
with adclicker malware rather than targeted activity. As adclicker 
malware is more common with criminal adversaries, it has been 
postulated that if the same adversary behind Dreammon is  
behind Pirpi, this adversary’s initial motives may have been 
financially driven.

OvERvIEw OF RUSSIAN THREAT ACTORS
Although the Chinese calendar predicted that 2014 would be the 
year of the Horse, in many respects 2014 has been the year of the 
Bear in the cyber realm, with several high-profile Russia-based 
actors receiving public attention. The reported activity has included 
actors tracked by CrowdStrike as eNeRGeTIC BeAR, FANCy BeAR, 
and VeNOMOUS BeAR, as well as other sets such as Sandworm, 
which uses the Black energy toolset in targeted attacks, in contrast 
to its normal use as criminal malware. CrowdStrike also tracks 
other adversaries attributed to Russia under cryptonyms such 
as BeRSeRK BeAR, BOULDeR BeAR, and the financial-crime-
motivated actor MAGNeTIC SPIDeR.

VeNOMOUS BeAR, also known as Snake, Turla, and Oroborous, uses 
a set of implants that culminates in a sophisticated Windows-based 
rootkit that can leverage an encrypted Virtual File System (VFS) as 
a staging area for tools to deploy and data prepared for exfiltration. 
It also includes implants for other platforms such as Linux that 
can be used to operate command-and-control infrastructure. 
external reporting indicates a targeting bias toward entities in the 
government sector, along with the use of zero-day exploits. These 
TTPs, along with the maturity of the attacker’s toolset, indicate that 
this is a highly sophisticated adversary.

FANCy BeAR is CrowdStrike’s name for an adversary also known 
as Sofacy. Although the tools used by this actor are not as complex 
as those employed by VeNOMOUS BeAR, they share a common 
targeting focus on government and military entities, with a particular 

57

Know
the 
Adversary 

emphasis on Russia’s “near abroad” regions such as eastern europe. 
As well as implants for Windows, Linux, and mobile operating 
systems, FANCy BeAR employs credential phishing attacks, 
spoofing legitimate sites to harvest the details of users of interest.

Proactive analysis during 2014 revealed another Russian actor that 
has not encountered public exposure, yet appears to have been 
tasked by Russian state interests. BeRSeRK BeAR has conducted 
operations from 2004 through to the present day, primarily aimed 
at collecting intelligence but has also provided capability in support 
of offensive operations in parallel to the Russia/Georgia conflict in 
August 2008.

eNeRGeTIC BeAR has been tracked by CrowdStrike since 2012. The 
adversary initially focused on targets in the energy sector, but more 
recently had branched out to attempt to compromise financial, 
industrial, and commercial organizations. This corresponded with 
a shift from primarily using SWC attack vectors to targeted email 
attacks. Analysis of eNeRGeTIC BeAR’s post-exploitation activity 
revealed the use of custom tools for credential harvesting, network 
enumeration, and interaction with industrial automation equipment. 

FANCY BEAR
In the second half of 2014, CrowdStrike Intelligence analyzed the 
targeted attack activity of a particularly interesting Russian actor 
named FANCy BeAR. The campaigns conducted by this actor 
target high-profile military and government entities in a variety 
of countries, most notably political institutions of former Soviet 
nations as well as eastern european countries, NATO institutions, 
and organizations of western countries. Technical indicators, such 
as the resource locales and C2 domain registrant information, 
exhibit references to a Russian-speaking adversary. In addition, 
the targeting is consistent with strategic interests of the Russian 
Federation. 

58

Know
the 
Adversary 

Targeting of high-profile entities requires mature and versatile 
technical means. FANCy BeAR exhibits a consistent level of 
technical sophistication with respect to its tools, and the actor is 
characterized by a thorough preparation of attacks and required 
infrastructure. Their main implant, called X-Agent, is a sophisticated 
RAT that exhibits a modular architecture and a multi-year 
development history. As a consequence, the adversary can combine 
the necessary implant functionality on a per-target basis, spanning 
multiple operating systems and mobile platforms. 

A remarkable feature only seen with some of the well-engineered 
and mature targeted attack malware is the following: If required, 
the implant can switch the carrier protocol for its command-and-
control channel ranging from HTTP over email to removable media. 
The latter is specifically suited for target environments that do not 
have direct network connectivity to a C2 node and instead rely on 
periodic use of USB removable media to bridge air gaps. In addition, 
recent incidents involved heavily obfuscated malware including code 
flow obfuscation, likely another step taken in order to hinder analysis 
efforts. All of these underline a clear targeted attack mission. 

59

2015 

Predictions

Understand how the 
evolving capabilities 
of these advanced 
adversaries will affect  

you in 2015.

Looking
Forward 

Predicting what will happen in 2015 is 
a challenge, as unforeseen events will 
inevitably occur and new TTPs from 
adversaries across the motivational 
spectrum will continue to shape the threat 
environment. Before exploring what may 
be coming in 2015, a brief look back at the 
predictions for 2014 is in order.

Last year, CrowdStrike made a number of predictions about the 
2014 threat landscape, many of which came to fruition: 

•  North Korean Activity – CrowdStrike Intelligence predicted that 

North Korea might use its cyber operations to project power 
during 2014. This prediction came to fruition at the end of 2014 
when a North Korean adversary attacked Sony because of one of 
the studio’s movies that North Korea perceived as an act of war.
•  windows XP End of life – Targeted attackers did use exploits 

such CVe-2014-1776 to target out-of-life Windows XP machines. 
This continues to be a significant risk, as the existence of legacy 
Windows XP machines continues to expose an attack surface.
•  Third-Party Targeting – 2013 saw actors targeting third-party 
vendors offering DNS, social media, and content management 
services in order to attack customers of those services. As one 
example, CrowdStrike observed a number of attacks by the 
HURRICANe PANDA adversary against DNS and hosting providers 
in 2014; these attacks were highly likely used to ultimately target 
those providers’ customers.

•  Sandbox-Aware Malware – The use of sandbox-aware malware 
was not new to 2014, but adversaries did make significant use 
of malware variants capable of detecting if they were being 
run in sandbox environments. These techniques ranged from 
detection of sandboxes through system and network artifacts, 
detection of user activity, and even prompting user interaction as 
a countermeasure.

61

Looking
Forward 

•  Use of High-Level Languages – The 2014 yearly report noted 
a downward trend in the use of low-level languages like C and 
a growing trend in the use of high-level languages like C# and 
Python. During 2014, CrowdStrike did observe several adversaries 
such as VICeROy TIGeR making heavy use of a malware variant 
that primarily leveraged Python script.

•  Activity in the Physical World – Physical world conflict often leads 

to related cyber operations, and 2014 was no different. A number 
of conflicts in the physical space such as those in the South China 
Sea, Ukraine, and the Middle east all resulted in related cyber 
operations by targeted intrusion adversaries in China, Russia, and 
Iran, as well as nationalist and hacktivist actors.

2015 will undoubtedly hold many surprises and new developments 
in the realm of computer security. The following section contains 
estimative judgments about what may be likely trends or 
occurrences in the next year.

RESEARCH AND DEvElOPmENT
Research and development during one year can often set the 
expectations and direction of the next. With this in mind, the 
CrowdStrike Intelligence team carefully observed patterns and 
trends in the security research community. Based on the trends of 
2014, the following estimates were developed:

•  It is expected that Let’s Encrypt, the first free certificate authority 

with a pre-installed root certificate in major browsers, will launch in 
2015. This service will offer very simple command line provisioning 
of certificates for use in HTTPS. As a result of the ease of use and 
availability, it is likely that an increasing amount of Internet traffic 
will be encrypted. As HTTP traffic becomes less common, it is 
more likely to be suspect and subject to closer inspection. This 
opens the possibility that more adversaries may look to leverage 
SSL certificates for command and control. Additionally, Content 
Security Policy (CSP) for webpages means that XSS-attacks will 
become more complicated to mount. In 2015, it is expected that 

62

Looking
Forward 

two-factor authentication will be more widely deployed across 
enterprise and cloud services, which will hopefully hamper the 
effectiveness of credential and banking phishing operations. 

•  Adversaries are constantly advancing their capabilities; overseas, 
cryptography and its application has continued to dominate the 
technology news, beginning with revelations from the Snowden 
leaks. CrowdStrike assesses it is possible that adversaries will 
deploy more sophisticated encryption and key agreement 
schemes to hamper interception by security professionals and 
intelligence services.

•  In 2015, a number of sandboxes using hypervisor introspection 

will become available, both commercially and in open source. 
Introspection allows a sandbox to instrument a virtual machine 
through the hypervisor; this provides additional stealth to the 
sandbox, allowing it to avoid detection. It remains to be seen 
whether malware authors will completely cease their efforts to 
detect traditional sandboxing solution and/or whether they will try 
to subvert introspection-based sandboxes. Given the difficulty in 
detection, and the speed at which new technologies are adopted, 
it is likely that adversaries will continue to detect traditional 
sandboxes in 2015, with more advanced adversaries exploring 
techniques to identify or evade introspection-based systems.

•  Embedded devices, regardless of whether they are home routers 

or industrial control systems, will be increasingly targeted. One 
of the primary factors impacting this belief is the increasing pace 
of vulnerability disclosures in the embedded space and in the 
underlying software they leverage. The increasing prevalence and 
popularity of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, discussed in more 
detail below, is another factor in this likely targeting. This targeting 
will likely occur across a variety of threat actors. In 2014, we saw 
the compromise  of home router technology used to build an 
embedded proxy layer used to mask the identity of the attacker.

63

Looking
Forward 

•  Internet of Things (IoT) devices are still in their infancy and the 

concept of IoT has not yet become widely adopted or even 
available to the average end user. There are, however, a large 
number of devices being sold already that would fit under the IoT 
umbrella, even if they do not make use of the IoT communication 
standards. While targeted attacks against IoT devices are unlikely 
at this time, the potential to abuse IoT devices for amplified DDOS 
as well as disrupting IoT networks through DOS’ing of central 
control infrastructure might well be possible. 

OUTlOOK FOR CHINA-BASED ADvERSARIES
China is, by now, well known for conducting cyber espionage 
campaigns focused on accessing intelligence about intellectual 
property, mergers and acquisitions, and technologies highlighted 
in its Five-year plans. Targeting these technologies and strategic 
business information allow its domestic companies to rapidly make 
“leap frog” developments, and to benefit from favorable bargaining 
positions, thus elevating them to become global leaders. This 
behavior is expected to continue in 2015, as will continued targeting 
of foreign government entities in an attempt to access information 
related to the global strategy and plans of these countries.

China is expected to continue to leverage this espionage as a means 
to conduct intelligence collection to support its aspirations to 
further push the envelope on its territorial claims. This is particularly 
true in the South China Sea (SCS) conflicts with Vietnam and the 
Philippines, and the Senkaku/Diaoyu island dispute with Japan. 
China has already undertaken substantial construction of manmade 
islands in the SCS to begin projecting its power, and as its Navy 
continues to grow, it will only seek to push further beyond its 
current boundaries. China is aggressively moving forward with the 
design and implementation of its own aircraft carriers, which will 
no doubt have an impact in this regional issue, allowing the PRC to 
project force and intimidate its neighbors.

64

Looking
Forward 

iMAge Of 
Alleged 
sigint dishes 
At chinese 
eMbAssy 
Annex

Taiwan will continue to play a very important role in the potential 
conflicts to come, not only as a testing ground for malware, but as 
the main focus for expanding Chinese territorial claims. The PRC 
views Taiwan as an inalienable part of China that will eventually 
be reunited for the greater good of both peoples and therefore 
places it above other territorial conflicts. Taiwan’s recent shift 
towards a decidedly less-Beijing-friendly, DPP-led government is 
of great concern to China and will be a major factor in how China 
uses technology to facilitate its political maneuverings. Taiwan has 
historically been penetrated by PRC intelligence services  at all 
levels, which makes cyber one of the first visible indicators of PRC 
intentions regarding Taiwan.

China has also made significant headway on projecting its “soft 
power” abroad via multiple billion-dollar investments, particularly 
in the sectors of communications and transportation infrastructure. 
For years, China has been making inroads in Africa to provide 
the vast majority of the continent’s telecommunication systems, 
but only recently have some of the more sinister intentions been 
brought to light.

In December 2014, approximately 
77 Chinese nationals were found 
to be running a sophisticated 
command center out of a house in 
Nairobi, Kenya, which appeared to 
be capable of targeting the main 
communication systems in the 
capital. A building with multiple 
large satellites that appears to be 
annexed to the Chinese embassy in 
Paris was also recently reported  on 
and believed to be connected to 
the 3PLA’s 8th Bureau, Unit 61046, 
which is responsible for SIGINT 
collection on western europe.

65

Looking
Forward 

There has also been a significant amount of investment poured 
into transportation projects, particularly high-speed rail (HSR) 
lines, in multiple countries. China has already planned to merge its 
two top train makers into a HSR juggernaut capable of building 
massive rail lines around the world. To this end, China has submitted 
bids for massive rail projects in Nigeria, and nearly won (this was 
subsequently canceled) another project in Mexico. China has 
also suggested massive lines between Beijing and Moscow and 
constructing a line between Delhi and Chennai in India. Beijing also 
remains interested in proposals for HSRs in Britain and California, 
and has already made headway on construction of a Hungary-
Serbian HSR that will connect Belgrade to Budapest. 

In total, the projects proposed by China would give it control of 
more than 40,000 km, giving it significant control over the world’s 
transportation routes. It seems fairly likely that, given China’s 
previous use of espionage against foreign companies (which it has 
used to gain advantages in competitive bidding and mergers & 
acquisitions), there is a substantial motivation for China to follow 
suit in the coming year as it looks to secure its position as the global 
leader in HSR construction.

jOINT PlAN OF ACTION COUlD POSSIBlY 
DRIvE IRANIAN CYBER ATTACKS
The Iranian Joint Plan of Action (JPOA), its delay, and its ultimate 
desired path by politicians to negotiate a Comprehensive Plan 
of Action (CPOA) are preeminent issues in the global press and 
political circles. The JPOA is a temporary agreement made between 
Iran and an intergovernmental negotiating body consisting of China, 
France, the Russian Federation, the Unßited Kingdom, the United 
States and Germany. The agreement was originally intended to be 
a six-month period in which the Iranian government would reduce 
its stockpile of enriched uranium fuel and suspend specific aspects 
of its nuclear energy programs in exchange for the UN Security 
Council relaxing of specific sanctions previously imposed against 
Iran. During this time of suspended nuclear research activities and 

66

Looking
Forward 

eased sanctions, negotiating parties would discuss the details of a 
more permanent agreement, known as the Comprehensive Plan of 
Action (CPOA). 

The JPOA could be a driver or tipping point for future cyber 
attacks by Iran against western targets. Iran has publicly noted  
the understanding that negotiations can be influenced and has 
demonstrated historically that it is willing (and has capabilities) 
to conduct cyber operations to influence negotiations if it sees fit 
to do so. It has been publicly speculated that Iran has conducted 
retaliatory attacks, notably the Shamoon incident in 2012. 

Recent open-source activities in the Iranian underground suggest 
Iran may be attempting to structure or resource for possible future 
cyber operations. There have been visibility changes with regard 
to information surrounding Iranian hackers, as well as forums and 
websites. Popular forums for Iranian hackers ISCN and Shabgard 
have been shut down and are no longer publicly accessible. 
Despite the shutdowns, there will likely be little change to the 
communication occurring between affiliated hackers in closed 
communications pathways. The closing of these forums could be in 
anticipation of future malicious activity and a desire to decrease the 
public profile of individuals in the Iranian underground. 

There are also clear links between the Iranian government hacking 
contests intended to identify hackers with advanced skills and 
to learn advanced methods of network intrusion. For example, 
in November 2013, just before the JPOA agreement was signed, 
Sharif University of Technology conducted a contest for “innovative 
methods” of computer network intrusions and defense against 
such intrusions. Based on the contest announcements, Iranian 
government cyber security authorities had access to the students’ 
submissions in the contest, and those submissions were not 
released to the public but rather kept private to only those with 
access to the contest submissions.

67

Looking
Forward 

Iranian adversaries such as ROCKeT KITTeN, FLyING KITTeN, 
and CHARMING KITTeN were quite active during 2014 targeting 
western governments and companies. The motivation to attack 
such targets will only increase during 2015. However, should the 
process around the JPOA and CPOA take a turn that Iran perceives 
as disadvantageous, the motivation will likely greatly increase. 
Recent revelations indicate that ROCKeT KITTeN may have, in fact, 
targeted the JPOA negotiations using spear phishing that may have 
targeted diplomats involved in the meetings.

CYBER SPIllOvER FROm REGIONAl CONFlICTS
Last year’s report included cyber spillover as something to look for 
in 2014, and it will be equally as important in 2015. Increasingly, real-
world physical conflicts are carrying with them associated cyber 
components. Sometimes the related cyber operations are carried 
out by entities directly engaged in the conflict, and other times 
entities not directly involved will engage in cyber operations in an 
attempt to support one side or the other. It is not possible to predict 
all possible conflicts in 2015, but there are three primary areas to 
keep an eye on.

The conflict that may see the most significant uptick in associated 
activity is the one centered around ISIS. The Syrian civil war saw 
quite a bit of associated cyber operations against western targets 
in 2013, many of which were attributed to the DeADeye JACKAL 
adversary (Syrian electronic Army). Since that time, the ISIS 
terrorist group has become a significant threat in the region and 
appears to be capable of bringing resources to bear to carry out 
malicious cyber attacks. 

Already, in early January 2015, a group calling itself CyberCaliphate 
and declaring support for ISIS hacked the social media presence of 
U.S. Central Command and used it to spread Islamist propaganda. 
It is likely that this and other related groups supporting the Islamist 
cause will engage in operations that support ISIS objectives. Most 
of this activity is likely to be a nuisance, such as defacements and 

68

Looking
Forward 

low-level DDOS attacks, but it is possible that more advanced actors 
could carry out targeted or even destructive attacks.

The South China Sea will be an area to continue to watch in 2015. 
As discussed above, tensions in this area drove a great deal of 
targeted intrusion activity from China-based adversaries in 2014. 
Tensions subsided toward the end of 2014, but the region is rich in 
natural resources and countries there, particularly China, are eager 
to lay claim to those resources. Because of this, there is a significant 
possibility that the conflict will flare up again in the coming year. 
One thing that could temper the possibility for conflict is if oil 
prices remain low, making oil exploration in the area potentially less 
lucrative.

Ukraine is the third region to keep an eye on for possible cyber 
spillover in 2015. The physical conflict there already spilled over 
into cyberspace, as was discussed above. So long as the Ukrainian 
conflict remains unresolved and foreign governments continue to 
exert pressure on Russia via economic sanctions, expect continued 
Russian targeting of governments, particularly those in europe and 
the U.S. 

Another related contributing factor to Russian cyber operations is 
the falling price of oil. Russia’s economy is deeply dependent on oil 
prices. The precipitous fall in the price of oil at the end of 2014 and 
going into 2015 has already caused a great deal of economic turmoil 
in Russia. An extended period of low oil prices could result in 
increased malicious cyber activity from Russian adversaries against 
foreign governments and private sector organizations.

THE FUTURE FOR POS ATTACKS
PoS malware experienced a great deal of success during 2014, 
however upcoming changes may force changes in payment-
processing systems in the U.S. For example, several major credit 
card companies are expected to institute new policies in October 
2015 that will shift liability for fraudulent transactions to whomever 

69

Looking
Forward 

is using the weakest payment-processing systems. The purpose 
of this is to drive retailers to adopt eMV (europay, MasterCard, 
and Visa) standards, which entail chip and PIN cards that use a 
combination of the traditional PIN number and an embedded 
microchip that encrypts vital information. This type of card offers a 
more secure payment card solution for consumers. 

Additionally, several alternative solutions, such as Apple Pay and 
Google Wallet, have started becoming adopted, allowing for 
payment via token systems. In theses systems, rather than a card 
number being transmitted, a one-time token is passed from a 
consumer’s device to the retailer. The advantage to this system is 
that in the event of the token being obtained by an unauthorized 
party, it cannot be reused for later transactions.

Adoption of these newer payment processes should provide 
consumers with more secure payment methods and make it more 
difficult for criminals seeking to make money off these systems. 
There will be some lag time in 2015 as retailers and banks move to 
put these improvements in place, during which cybercriminals will 
still be able to exploit the current, antiquated payment processing 
systems in the U.S. However, the newer processes, once in place, 
should lead to a decline in the type of PoS attacks seen over  
the past year. 

Despite this decline, it is almost certain that the implementation  
of more secure methods will lead cybercriminals to develop  
more sophisticated means by which to attack payment- 
processing systems.

DESTRUCTIvE AND DISRUPTIvE ATTACKS
Destructive attacks (such as those carried out by SILeNT 
CHOLLIMA) and disruptive attacks (such as the DDOS activity 
against gaming platforms) garnered headlines at the end of 2014. 
The high-profile nature of these attacks does not necessarily 
indicate that they will grow in popularity in 2015, however it is 

70

Looking
Forward 

possible that the success of these attacks may encourage other 
groups to engage in destructive or disruptive operations to  
advance their interests.

As an example of this, a series of disruptive attacks in December 
targeted online gaming platforms. These attacks manifested in the 
form of DDOS operations carried out by the LizardSquad group 
briefly discussed above. The attacks came in two waves, the first of 
which was in early December when the Xbox Live and PlayStation 
networks were knocked offline for a short period of time. The 
second wave of attacks occurred on 25 December 2014 when the 
Xbox and PlayStation online platforms suffered more outages that 
LizardSquad claimed responsibility for. CrowdStrike Intelligence 
is also aware of DDOS threats against other gaming platforms 
including Valve Software, which appeared to be targeted by a DNS 
amplification DDOS attack that is similar to previous  
LizardSquad activity.

Malicious actors have already engaged in disruptive campaigns in 
early 2015. Following the January terrorist attacks in France, a group 
of Islamist hackers known as Fallaga conducted DDOS attacks 
against servers hosting websites for French foreign embassies. Soon 
after, another Islamist group identifying with ISIS took control of 
the Twitter and youTube accounts for U.S. Central Command and 
posted a number of messages threatening U.S. troops and their 
families.

Organizations in all sectors should be aware of, and prepared 
for, destructive and disruptive attacks. These operations are 
often motivated by a specific grievance, but sometimes no clear 
motivation can be established. Continuous monitoring for publicized 
threats against an organization, or for potential areas of controversy 
that could motivate malicious activity, is vital to detect and prepare 
for these types of attacks.  

71

Conclusion

the question now is: 

How do you incorporate 

intelligence into your 
daily defenses and 

prioritize resources based 
on risk to your business?

Conclusion

In the course of reviewing 2014, there were so many 
interesting events, adversaries, and innovations that 
selecting examples for this report was an incredible 
challenge. The CrowdStrike Intelligence team spent 
much time narrowing the scope of topics covered 
herein. The adversaries in 2014 proved, if nothing else, 
to be dynamic, persistent, and innovative. Defenders 
must be inventive, diligent, and decisive in their efforts 
to defend the enterprise from these attackers.

2015 will be a continuation of the cat-and-mouse 
game that is played between the adversary and 
the defender. Adversaries across the motivational 
spectrum will continue to evolve their tactics in 
order to achieve their objectives. Although tactics 
may evolve, network defenders will be able to have 
success against the adversary so long as they are well 
prepared. 

Intelligence will provide the decisive advantage 
to both sides, and having a good defense will 
be predicated on having an informed, intelligent 
defensive team. The incorporation of intelligence into 
the daily defense of the enterprise will continue to 
be paramount and products, services, and solution 
providers will need to use this intelligence to stay 
ahead of the adversary. 

At CrowdStrike, intelligence powers everything we do, 
and as 2015 unfolds, organizations using intelligence 
will be better prepared to detect, deter, and defend 
against their adversaries.

73

CrowDSTrIKe
FAlCon  
intelligenCe

CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence portal 
provides enterprises with strategic, 
customized, and actionable intelligence. 
Falcon Intelligence enables organizations 
to prioritize resources by determining 
targeted versus commodity attacks, 
saving time and focusing resources on 
critical threats. With unprecedented 
insight into adversary Tactics, Techniques, 
and Procedures (TTPs) and multi-source 
information channels, analysts can identify 
pending attacks and automatically feed 
threat intelligence via API to SIEM and 
third-party security tools.

Access to CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence 
is geared toward all levels of an 
organization, from the executive who 
needs to understand the business threat 
and strategic business impact, to the front-
line security professional struggling to 
fight through an adversary’s attack against 
the enterprise.

CrowdStrike Falcon 
Intelligence is a
web-based intelligence 
subscription
that includes full access 
to a variety
of feature sets, 
including:

•  Detailed technical and strategic analysis of 
50+ adversaries’ capabilities, indicators and 
tradecraft, attribution, and intentions

•  Customizable feeds and API for indicators of 

compromise in a wide variety of formats

•  Tailored intelligence that provides visibility into 
breaking events that matter to an organization’s 
brand, infrastructure, and customers

74

 Let us show you how  

CrowdStrike can help you understand 

your adversary and better protect  

your network in 2015!  

Contact sales@crowdstrike.com  
to discuss your specific needs.

888-512-8906

w w w. c r o w d s t r i k e . c o m

AboUT CrowdStrike

crowdstrike™ is a leading provider of next-
generation endpoint protection, threat 
intelligence, and services. CrowdStrike Falcon 
enables customers to prevent damage from 
targeted attacks, detect and attribute advanced 
malware and adversary activity in real time, and 
effortlessly search all endpoints, reducing  
overall incident response time.

crowdstrike customers include some of the 
largest blue chip companies in the financial 
services, energy, oil & gas, telecommunications, 
retail, and technology sectors, along with 
some of the largest and most sophisticated 
government agencies worldwide.

76

to learn more, please visit www.crowdstrike.com

