An analysis of Regin's Hopscotch and Legspin

With high profile threats like Regin, mistakes are incredibly rare. However, when it comes to humans
writing code, some mistakes are inevitable. Among the most interesting things we observed in the Regin
malware operation were the forgotten codenames for some of its modules.

These are:

Hopscotch
Legspin
Willischeck
U_STARBUCKS

We decided to analyze two of these modules in more detail - Hopscotch and Legspin.

Despite the overall sophistication (and sometimes even over-engineering) of the Regin platform, these
tools are simple, straightforward and provide interactive console interfaces for Regin operators. What
makes them interesting is the fact they were developed many years ago and could even have been created
before the Regin platform itself.

The Hopscotch module

MD5
Size
Type
Compiled

6c34031d7a5fc2b091b623981a8ae61c
36864 bytes
Win32 EXE
2006.03.22 19:09:29 (GMT)

This module has another binary inside, stored as resource 103:

MD5
Size
Type
Compiled

42eaf2ab25c9ead201f25ecbdc96fb60
18432 bytes
Win32 EXE
2006.03.22 19:09:29 (GMT)

This executable module was designed as a standalone interactive tool for lateral movement. It does not
contain any exploits but instead relies on previously acquired credentials to authenticate itself at the
remote machine using standard APIs.

The module receives the name of the target machine and an optional remote file name from the standard
input (operator). The attackers can choose from several options at the time of execution and the tool
provides human-readable responses and suggestions for possible input.

Here's an example of "Hopscotch" running inside a virtual machine:

Authentication Mechanism (SU or NETUSE) [S]/N:
Continue? [n]:
A File of the same name was already present on Remote Machine - Not deleting...

The module can use two routines to authenticate itself at the target machine: either connecting to the
standard share named "IPC$" (method called "NET USE") or logging on as a local user ("SU", or "switch
user") who has enough rights to proceed with further actions.

It then extracts a payload executable from its resources and writes it to a location on the target machine.
The default location for the payload is: \\%target%\ADMIN$\SYSTEM32\SVCSTAT.EXE. Once
successful, it connects to the remote machine's service manager and creates a new service called "Service
Control Manager" to launch the payload. The service is immediately started and then stopped and deleted
after one second of execution.

The module establishes a two-way encrypted communication channel with the remote payload
SVCSTAT.EXE using two named pipes. One pipe is used to forward input from the operator to the
payload and the other writes data from the payload to the standard output. Data is encrypted using the
RC4 algorithm and the initial key exchange is protected using asymmetric encryption.

\\%target%\pipe\{66fbe87a-4372-1f51-101d-1aaf0043127a}
\\%target%\pipe\{44fdg23a-1522-6f9e-d05d-1aaf0176138a}

Once completed, the tool deletes the remote file and closes the authenticated sessions, effectively
removing all the traces of the operation.

The SVCSTAT.EXE payload module launches its copy in the process dllhost.exe and then prepares the
corresponding named pipes on the target machine and waits for incoming data. Once the original module
connects to the pipe, it sets up the encryption of the pipe communication and waits for the incoming
shellcode.

The executable is injected in a new process of dllhost.exe or svchost.exe and executed, with its input and
output handles redirected to the remote plugin that initiated the attack. This allows the operator to control
the injected module and interact with it.

The Legspin module

MD5
Size

Type

29105f46e4d33f66fee346cfd099d1cc
67584 bytes

Win32 EXE

Compiled

2003.03.17 08:33:50 (GMT)

This module was also developed as a standalone command line utility for computer administration. When
run remotely it becomes a powerful backdoor. It is worth noting that the program has full console support
and features colored output when run locally. It can even distinguish between consoles that support
Windows Console API and TTY-compatible terminals that accept escape codes for coloring.

"Legspin" output in a standard console window with color highlighting

In addition to the compilation timestamp found in the PE headers, there are two references that point to
2003 as its true year of compilation. The program prints out two version labels:

2002-09-A, referenced as "lib version"
2003-03-A

In addition the program uses legacy API functions, like "NetBIOS" that was introduced in Windows 2000
and deprecated in Windows Vista.

Once started and initialized, it provides the operator with an interactive command prompt, waiting for
incoming commands. The list of available commands is pretty large and allows the operators to perform
many administrative actions. Some of the commands require additional information that is requested
from the operator, and the commands provide a text description of the available parameters. The program
is actually an administrative shell that is intended to be operated manually by the attacker/user.

Command
cd

Description
Change current working directory

dir
ls
dirl
dirs
tar

tree

trash
get
put
del
ren
mv
copy
cp
gtm
stm
mtm
scan
strings
more
access
audit
finfo
cs

List files and directories

Find files matching a given mask and time range, and write their contents to a XOR-encrypted
archive
Print out a directory tree using pseudographics

Read and print out the contents of the Windows "Recycle Bin" directory
Retrieve an arbitrary file from the target machine, LZO compressed
Upload an arbitrary file to the target machine, LZO compressed
Delete a file
Copy or move a file to a new location

Get file creation, access, write timestamps and remember the values
Set file creation, access, write timestamps to the previously retrieved values
Modify the previously retrieved file timestamps
Find and print out all readable strings from a given file

Print out the contents of an arbitrary file
Retrieve and print out DACL entries of files or directories
Retrieve and print out SACL entries of files or directories
Retrieve and print out version information from a given file
Dump the first 10,000 bytes from an arbitrary file or from several system files:

advapi32.dll 

kernel32.dll 
msvcrt.dll 
ntdll.dll 
ntoskrnl.exe 
win32k.sys 
cmd.exe 
ping.exe 
ipconfig.exe 
tracert.exe 
netstat.exe 
net.exe 
user32.dll 
gdi32.dll 
shell32.dll
Search for LNK files, parse and print their contents
Print out general system information:

CPU type
memory status
computer name
Windows and Internet Explorer version numbers
Windows installation path
Codepage

lnk
info

dl

Print information about the disks:

Type
Free/used space
List of partitions, their filesystem types

ps
logdump
reglist
windows
view
domains
shares
regs

List all running processes
Unfinished, only displays the parameter description
Dump registry information for a local or remote hive
Enumerate all available desktops and all open windows
List all visible servers in a domain
List the domain controllers in the network
List all visible network shares
Print additional system information from the registry:

IE version
Outlook Express version
Logon default user name
System installation date
BIOS date
CPU frequency
System root directory

ips

List network adapter information:

DHCP/static IP address
Default gateway's address

times
who
net
nbtstat
tracert
ipconfig
netstat
ping
tel

dns
arps
users
admins
groups
trusts
packages
sharepw
sharelist
srvinfo
netuse
netshare
nbstat
run
system
exit
set
su
kill
kpinst

svc
drv
help
?

Obtain the current time from a local or remote machine
List the names of current users and the domains accessed by the machine
Run the corresponding system utility and print the results

Connect to a given TCP port of a host, send a string provided by the operator, print out the
response
Resolve a host using DNS or ARP requests

List information about all user accounts
List information about user accounts with administrative privileges
List information about user groups
List information about interdomain trust user accounts
Print the names of installed software packages
Run a brute-force login attack trying to obtain the password of a remote share
Connect to a remote share
Retrieve current configuration information for the specified server
Connect, disconnect or list network shares
Create or remove network shares on the current machine
List NetBIOS LAN adapter information
Create a process and redirect its output to the operator
Run an arbitrary command using WinExec API
Exit the program
Set various internal variables used in other shell commands
Log on as a different user
Terminate a process by its PID
Modify the registry value:
[HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon] System 
This value should normally point to "lsass.exe".
Create, modify or remove a system service

Print the list of supported commands

The Legspin module we recovered doesn't have a built-in C&C mechanism. Instead, it relies on the Regin
platform to redirect the console input/output to/from the operators.

Conclusions

Unlike most other Regin modules, Legspin and Hopscotch appear to be stand-alone tools developed much

earlier. The Legspin backdoor in particular dates back to 2003 and perhaps even 2002. It's worth pointing
that not all Regin deployments contain the Legspin module; in most cases, the attackers manage their
victims through other Regin platform functions.

This means that Legspin could have been used independently from the Regin platform, as a simple
backdoor together with an input/output wrapper.

Although more details about Regin are becoming available, there is still a lot that remains unknown. One
thing is already clear – what we know about Regin is probably already retired information that has been
replaced by new modules and techniques as time passes.

