Scarab attackers took aim at select Russian targets since 2012

Contributor: Yi Li

A group of attackers, which we call Scarab, has been performing highly targeted attacks against particular
Russian-speaking individuals both inside and outside of Russia since at least January 2012. In each
campaign, the attackers typically target a small amount of individuals−rather than enterprises or
governments−using economic, military, topical, or generic lures. On average, less than ten unique
computers are infected per month and there is no indication that the attackers are trying to spread
through the victim’s local network, suggesting that Scarab’s campaigns are extremely targeted in nature.

Many of Scarab’s campaigns focus on distributing the group’s custom malware (Trojan.Scieron and
Trojan.Scieron.B) through emails with malicious attachments. These files contain exploits that take
advantage of older vulnerabilities that are already patched by vendors. If the attackers successfully
compromise the victims’ computers, then they use a basic back door threat called Trojan.Scieron to drop
Trojan.Scieron.B on to the computer. Trojan.Scieron.B has a rootkit-like component that hides some of its
network activity and features more enhanced back door functionality.

Who are the Scarab attackers?
Based on our research, the Scarab attackers are a technically capable group, judging on how they have
custom-developed several malicious tools for these campaigns. However, they are not highly skilled or
well resourced, as they rely on older exploits and executables stored in compressed archives to distribute
their threats.

There are some indications (based on language resources) that the attackers are familiar with Chinese
language characters,  and they seem to mostly target Russian speakers located in Russia and other regions
around the world.

Figure 1 Scarab victims based on Symantec telemetry

The group conducts command-and-control (C&C) operations almost exclusively through the use of
dynamic domain name system (DNS) domains. The C&C servers are usually hosted in South Korea;
however, there have been instances where servers were located in other countries.

For the majority of 2012, there was not much information about Scarab’s victims. However from October
2012, a number of emails used by Scarab were blocked by Symantec .Cloud. All of the emails were sent
from @yandex.ru email addresses.

Early attacks
On October 29, 2012, an email with the Russian language subject “Экспериментальное определение
эффективно” was sent to two individuals working for a large retail organization. Translated to English,
the email’s subject is “Experimental definition is effective.”

These emails contained Microsoft Word attachments that triggered an exploit taking advantage of the
Microsoft Windows Common Controls ActiveX Control Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2012-
0158). Once triggered, the exploit dropped a copy of Trojan.Scieron onto the victim’s computer. The
attackers continued to intermittently send emails with .doc malware droppers until August 2013.

On January 22, 2013, the Scarab attackers sent an email with the English language subject “Joint Call For
Papers - Conferences / Journal Special Issues, January 2013” to two individuals. The attackers sent the
message to email accounts associated with an Australian funded academic research project that had
concluded in 2010. It is possible that the researchers were continuing to use the email accounts for
unrelated topics and this was why the attackers chose to target them. Seven days later, another email was
sent to the same two individuals, this time with a Russian language subject of “Информация по
обслуживанию высвобожденны,”which translates to “Service-related information are released” (sic).

G20 summit focus
From this point on, at least until January of 2014, the attackers moved to finance-related lures and
targets. In April, the attackers sent an email with the subject “G20 receives clean bill of health at Boao” to
a European government target.

In August, they sent another email to six people working for an international economic organisation. This
email had the Russian language subject of “G20 на 2013 г” which translates to “G20 for 2013.”

In August, a final G20-related email was sent to two individuals working in the Economic Ministry of a
European government. That email had the English language subject “About G20 details.”

Russian news lures
There were no further emails discovered and no active infections detected until January 2014, when
Scarab’s activity resumed and continued up to now. From that month on, the attackers have been using
“.scr” files to drop Trojan.Scieron. The titles of these .scr files are usually in Russian, and are a hint as to
the nature of the targets. It’s very likely that the .scr files are being delivered by email; however this has
not been confirmed. It is also likely and again, unconfirmed−that the .scr files are embedded in .rar files.

One example of the group’s malicious .scr file names is “Россия к 2016 году проведет испытания
газовых турбин для военных кораблей.” This translates to “Russian Federation to 2016 will test gas
turbines for warships.” The title comes from an article, published in June 2014, on a Russian media
website.

Figure 2. The attackers used the titles of news articles from a Russian media site for their malicious files’
names

Another more recent file name was “план работы на июнь 2014 года.doc.scr” which translates to the
quite generic “work plan for June 2014 year.doc.src.”

Looking at the total number of infections per country in Figure 1 based on Symantec telemetry, it’s clear
that Russia, or at least Russian speakers, are the primary targets of the Scarab attackers, although non-
Russian speakers have been targeted as well.

Scarab’s malware
In all of these campaigns, the attackers have attempted to compromise victims’ computers with a variant
of Trojan.Scieron. This is a basic back door threat that is used to download additional malware onto the
target’s computer.

The main payload of Trojan.Scieron is within a DLL file. This file is dropped either from a Trojanized
Microsoft Word document or from other PE files.

Once the Trojan compromises the victim’s computer, it is able to perform the following actions:

Gather system information, such as the computer name, host name, operating system version, and
drive type
Download additional files
Execute files
Retrieve specific files from the victim’s computer
List directories
Delete files
Move files to other folders

In most of the investigated incidents, Trojan.Scieron has been used to download an enhanced version of
itself, which Symantec detects as Trojan.Scieron.B. This threat includes a basic ‘rootkit-like’ tool which
hides some of its network activity.

Trojan.Scieron.B’s file names seen to date are usually seclog32.dll (back door) and hidsvc.dat (rootkit).
The back door’s functionality includes the following features:

Create, list, and terminate processes
Read, set, and delete registry entries
Read, write, list, and delete files and directories
Gather cached URLs
Launch remote shell
Gather recent active files
Retrieve details from its configuration file

Trojan.Scieron.B’s ‘rootkit’ functionality allows it to hide a Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) port in
communications.

Symantec and Norton protection
The Scarab attackers have been consistently targeting a select number of victims with custom malware
over the last few years. While the group uses older exploits, their campaigns seem to have had some
success, judging on how they have continued to operate similar campaigns over the years. The attackers’
focus on Russian speakers shows that they have specific targets in mind and they continue to adjust the
subject of their email campaigns to successfully compromise their victims.

Symantec .Cloud blocks emails that come from the Scarab attackers. Symantec and Norton products also
offer the following detections against Scarab’s custom malware

Trojan.Scieron
Trojan.Scieron.B

In general, you should adhere to the following best practices to prevent Scarab’s attacks from
compromising your computer:

Exercise caution when receiving unsolicited, unexpected, or suspicious emails
Avoid clicking on links in unsolicited, unexpected, or suspicious emails
Avoid opening attachments in unsolicited, unexpected, or suspicious emails
Update the software, operating system, and browser plugins on your computer to prevent attackers
from exploiting known vulnerabilities.
Use comprehensive security software, such as Norton Security, to protect yourself from malware.

Indicators of compromise (IoC)
For a full list of IoCs, please check out our indicators of compromise document.

