Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Crouching Tiger, 
Hidden Dragon, 
Stolen Data 

 

Context Information Security 
whitepapers@contextis.com 
 
March 2012 

 

 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

1 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

 

Contents 

Executive Summary 

Introduction 

Categorising Attacks 

Why Cyber? 

How Cyber? 

The Targets 

The Requirements 

Boosting Domestic Enterprise 

At Risk 

How Does it Happen? 

Setting Requirements 

Planning and Direction 

Collection 

Processing and Exploitation 

Analysis and Production 

Dissemination 

The Scale of the Operation 

Profiting from the Product 

Hypothetical Case Study: Aircraft Construction 

Conclusion 

About Context 

Appendix 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

7 

9 

11 

12 

14 

14 

15 

15 

15 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

21 

23 

24 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

2 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Executive Summary 

Media reports show that targeted cyber attacks against government and commerce have 
been ongoing since at least 2003 and possibly some time before that. By far the largest 
sponsor of these attacks is the Chinese state. This is not a new problem; it is espionage with a 
different methodology. 

These attacks are far from random or indiscriminate. These attacks are designed to steal 
information that will fulfil a clear set of requirements set by the Chinese state and furnish 
them with political, commercial and security/intelligence information. These requirements 
are carefully and clearly identified, shared with a number of government departments and 
constantly updated. There is evidence of worldwide targeting but only a minority of attacks 
are identified and fewer still made public. 

This is a structured program and the main protagonists in China are widely believed to be 
the Third Department of the People’s Liberation Army. Even using conservative estimates it is 
likely that the program employs thousands of military personnel. While the military program 
may be the most developed and sophisticated, it is likely that other parts of the Chinese 
state and even the private sector may also be carrying out similar attacks. 

There are clues to the companies and types of data most at risk. In particular the Five Year 
Plan1 and the National Outline for Medium and Long Term S&T Development2 give detail on 
the areas in which China intends to excel and identifies specific technology which the 
Chinese want to develop or otherwise acquire. Electronics, telecoms, manufacturing, 
extraction, energy, biotech, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, space and defence are sectors 
at the highest risk, alongside companies and services such as law and accountancy firms 
that support them and hold their data. 

The likely recipients of stolen commercial data are the 117 Chinese State Owned Enterprises 
that dominate the economy. These companies are closely linked to the state and the 
Communist Party which has power over strategy, senior management and even wages. 
Companies with SOE competitors should be especially concerned about data security. 

Two factors make western governments and companies more vulnerable to Chinese 
targeted cyber attacks. Firstly, there is reluctance for governments and companies to 
accuse China directly or take any form of action for fear of either being isolated politically 
or being blocked from a lucrative developing market. Secondly, a long term reliance on 
traditional security products such as anti-virus, coupled with a lack of education about the 
threat, leaves businesses vulnerable to attack and unprepared for any investigations that 
are required in the aftermath of a compromise. 

Context has extensive experience of detecting and investigating targeted attacks and 
working with clients to help protect their data.  

                                                   

1 Chinese Government Official Web Portal website  

2 China International Science and Technology Cooperation website   

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

3 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Introduction 

There have been many media reports in recent years about cyber attacks on governments 
and a variety of private sector companies. The rather ambiguous term ‘Advanced Persistent 
Threat’3 (‘APT’) is widely used to describe any attack that appears to have compromised 
computers in these companies or organisations, regardless of the source or purpose of the 
attack. We prefer simply to call them ‘targeted attacks’ and leave marketing terms to one 
side. This paper is not concerned with the technical aspects of targeted attacks, it seeks 
instead to inform readers about the full scope and nature of these attacks, the reasons why 
they are launched and the people and policies behind their design and execution. 

Many reports of attacks inevitably end by asking ‘who did it?’ But the answer is rarely 
straightforward. Western Governments usually allege the attacks come from ‘Asia’ or the 
‘Far East’, rather than risk offending the Chinese government. Large corporations are 
similarly vague in their descriptions of these events, for fear of harming lucrative business 
arrangements. Security ‘experts’ always caution that IP addresses can be used as hop 
points through which attackers disguise their true origins, so perhaps this could be a case of 
other countries trying to make it look as if China was the source. While this is true, if 
something looks, walks and quacks like a duck, it is almost always a duck. 

We will not be so coy. This paper will look directly at the most prolific sponsor of computer 
network exploitation attacks: China. We know other countries have implemented similar 
programs for attacking computer networks and have seen many examples of these in our 
work over the last few years, but our focus here is China. 

We will examine various aspects of these attacks, including the nature of the information 
targeted and the types of organisations threatened. We will consider the effort involved in 
planning, executing and managing these attacks; and assess the information products they 
generate, in order to understand the scale of human involvement and the government 
policies that sponsor information theft via targeted attacks. With all this in mind we will then 
postulate on where the stolen information goes and how it may be used. 

 

 

                                                   

3 Advanced Persistent Threat has recently become a catch all term for targeted attacks 
against computer networks and is often used to describe the malware. In fact, the term was 
first coined by the United States Air Force in 2006, specifically to refer to China – without 
actually saying China. ‘Advanced’ because the attackers could use a variety of attacks to 
get access to a network and could raise their game to use zero day vulnerabilities if 
necessary; ‘Persistent’ because the attacks would not stop until the attacker had achieved 
their objectives; and ‘Threat’ because this attack was not automated like a botnet, but was 
conducted by humans who adapt and evolve their methods to evade defences. 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

4 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Categorising Attacks 

Many commentators have divided the targets of attacks into four categories: political, 
economic, technical and military. This works as a general model, but focuses on the target 
of the attack as a whole rather than considering the type of information the attacker seeks 
to steal. If a criminal gang unleashes a phishing attack aimed at harvesting banking 
credentials and it is the employees of a butchers shop and a bakery that fall victim to it, that 
does not mean the attack was targeting bread and meat.  

Bearing this in mind, we divide target areas into the following categories: 

  Political. The information targeted will inform the state on the political positions of 
other governments on a range of issues, including economics, trade and human 
rights. Typical targets are government departments, embassies, trade bodies, NGOs, 
and international political groups such as the UN, G20, World Bank and IMF. 

  Commercial. The information targeted will be of value to the private sector within 

that country (even if the lines between private and public sectors are blurred). It may 
include IPR, product designs, negotiating positions for sales discussions, mergers and 
acquisitions information and strategic plans (particularly in relation to the attacking 
country). 

 

Intelligence. The information targeted here will be used to safeguard internal security 
by the attacker country (this may entail intimidation or close monitoring of minority or 
opposition groups or individuals) and to enable analysis of the military technology, 
capabilities and intentions of other countries. 

There are a number of major problems that need to be overcome when seeking a 
complete understanding of the scale and purpose of attacks. Many will never be detected, 
those that are may not always be reported; and the vast majority are not investigated by 
professionals with a good understanding of these types of attack. Dealing with the technical 
aspects of the compromise alone is not enough: the victim needs to know why they were 
being attacked, by whom, what data was stolen and where it may go.  

While government agencies, such as the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure4 
(CPNI) in the UK and the FBI5 in the US, are working successfully with larger organisations to 
identify potential threats, reduce the risk of successful attacks and in some cases to identify 
and investigate specific compromises, this assistance is not available to every company. It is 
not generally available to those that need it the most – companies that innovate and excel 
in niche areas and supply technology or products that other companies make use of in 
larger projects. These companies live and die by the success of their research and 
development, but often lack the budgetary resources or expertise required to adequately 
protect their networks from this type of threat. 

Even when compromises are investigated by companies that understand the attackers and 
their motives, it is often not felt to be in the interests of either party to publish the findings of 
those investigations, or to share the results with the affected company’s competitors, who 

                                                   

4 http://www.cpni.gov.uk  

5 http://www.fbi.gov/ 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

5 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

may be suffering from similar attacks. There is also a widespread lack of understanding of 
targeted attacks among IT staff, a lack of dedicated IT security personnel and, sometimes as 
a consequence of IT functions being outsourced, an over-reliance on traditional security 
products such as anti-virus and firewalls – both of which are ineffective against even lower 
end targeted attacks. The pressure exerted on IT staff from the business is primarily 
concerned with service uptime and availability rather than security; and budgets for even 
routine security operations such as penetration testing are under constant pressure. It is a 
sad fact that, for many businesses, money for IT security only becomes available once a 
serious problem has been identified, by which time it is often too late. 

One more common problem in private sector companies is that some managers take the 
attitude that they would prefer not to know about security problems. Information 
Technology departments may worry that commissioning a detection exercise to find 
compromised hosts in their environment, could reveal a series of attacks and the theft of 
data, which might not be good for their career prospects. Higher up the management 
chain, board members may even choose not to spend money on security on the grounds 
that this will affect profitability and perhaps the size of their salaries or bonuses. They may 
instead prefer to postpone any major spending on security until they absolutely have to. 

Why Cyber? 

Clearly, the Chinese government is keen to understand the political decisions taken by other 
countries and the activities of opposition groups within China, so it is hardly surprising that it 
orchestrates the compromise of computers via emailed Trojan attachments or links to 
compromised websites on a large scale. This is nothing new; just traditional espionage with a 
new methodology.  

Until recently China, like most other developed countries, would have hand-picked 
intelligence officers from universities and the military, trained them in the arts of developing 
relationships, recruiting agents and how to covertly gather information to pass back to 
Beijing. They would have been deployed to embassies overseas or under a business cover. 

The arrival of the Internet did not sound the death knell for human spying, it simply offered 
an attractive alternative. Moving espionage operations into the virtual world brings some 
advantages. Firstly, it does not require anyone to be sent overseas. This is an important 
change for the governments of communist countries, naturally suspicious of the long term 
intentions of even their most trusted officials. It means there is less need to invest in lengthy 
training processes. Instead, hacking operations can be broken down into simple tasks and 
partly automated to minimise the need for operators with advanced technical skills. 
Conducting these operations is cheap and carries a lesser risk than human espionage: even 
if the target is fairly certain as to the origin of an attack, the sponsoring government can 
claim to be a victim of mistaken identity or of a western conspiracy. 

But the key benefit of this type of espionage is that any piece of information stored 
anywhere in the world on a computer or a network connected to the Internet is only a few 
clicks away from being stolen. There are even attacks that are designed to jump to 
computers not connected to the Internet. If the prize is great enough and the attacker is 
determined enough, there is always a way. 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

6 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

How Cyber? 

This paper is not concerned with ‘how’ the attacks happen, which is a subject for a white 
paper in its own right. Typically however, the attackers target the desktops and laptops of 
the victim’s organisation and send emails with  an attachment containing an exploit, (often 
an Adobe PDF or Microsoft Office document) that is targeted at one person. Once the 
victim opens the attachment the exploit executes, typically downloading and automatically 
installing a Trojan, which the attacker can then use to access the victim’s system. The 
attackers also utilise website vulnerabilities which exploit vulnerabilities in web browsers such 
as Internet Explorer or Firefox to download malicious code onto a machine when a user 
clicks on a link in an email. Once the attacker has this foothold on the network, they 
typically look to download and use further hacking tools to escalate privileges to gain 
administrative access to key internal servers such as Domain Controllers or File Servers. Once 
achieved, the attackers typically use another remote desktop or laptop on the network to 
collate the data stolen and exfilitrate it to their remote servers. 

In the case that a network is fully patched and constitutes a hard target, the attackers can 
respond and raise their game substantially. This could include exploiting a zero day 
vulnerability6 or employing other means of installing an implant, such as using physical 
access to introduce an attack or even attacking a supply chain. 

The Targets 

Despite opening up greatly over the last 15 years, China is still very much run by the 
Communist Party. The Party has control over and involvement in every area of daily life, but 
despite the internal focus, China is careful to keep an eye on the outside world and how the 
country’s institutions and companies are perceived by foreign governments. An 
understanding of other countries’ political positions on key issues that affect China is key to 
forward planning, especially for an economy built on cheap exports. 

The governments in which the Chinese state is most interested fall into three groups: its 
nearest neighbours: Japan, Taiwan, the disputed (semi-autonomous) Tibet, Mongolia and 
the Muslim ‘Stans’ to the west; other powerful states with international influence such as the 
US, Russia, the UK, Germany, France and India; and finally states with strong economic links 
to China including Brazil, Iran, Australia, parts of Africa and Southeast Asia.  

Whilst China will not be interested in the entire spectrum of government affairs in each of 
these countries, there will be some interest in some parts of all these governments’ activities. 
Gathering information on this scale is a massive task: monitoring relevant issues, identifying 
individuals with access to that information and crafting attacks in the appropriate form and 
language. 

The other constant preoccupation of the Chinese government is the maintenance of 
internal and external security. The enemies of the internal state are referred to as the ‘Five 
Poisons’: the separatist Uighurs (a mainly Muslim group in Northeast China), Tibetan 
separatists, pro-democracy supporters, supporters of an independent Taiwan and followers 
of the religious group Falun Gong. Keeping tabs on these groups and on their known 
supporters at home and overseas is another huge task. The Ministry of State Security monitors 

                                                   

6 A zero day vulnerability is one which is not publicly known and for which no patch exists. 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

7 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

the communications between individuals and groups, a task made considerably easier 
through the deployment of Trojans to compromise computer equipment. As a minimum, 
security services would usually seek to steal email account login and password details in 
order to be able to log in remotely and read emails. Google has confirmed this activity was 
taking place on the Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents.7  

China wants a clear picture of other countries’ military activities in order to inform its own 
tactical and strategic decisions. Human penetrations of foreign military organisations are 
extremely difficult and carry significant risks, so relatively passive email attacks are an 
excellent substitute activity, where no single incident can be seen as an act of aggression 
meriting a military response. It remains to be seen whether thousands of attacks conducted 
over a long period of time will come to be regarded as having been a provocative act 
warranting a military response. 

While China has been publicly – albeit mostly not directly – accused of carrying out attacks 
against governments, military organisations and military contractors numerous times, there 
are also plenty of examples of private sector organisations being targeted. Several stand 
out from the last few years: the ‘Aurora8’ attacks that hit Google, Adobe, Juniper, Northrup 
Grumman and others; the McAfee-dubbed ‘Night Dragon9’ attacks that struck companies 
around the world in the energy sector; and the ‘Shady RAT10’ attacks that affected the steel 
industry, heavy engineering, construction and communications companies and others.  

Interestingly, despite reporting on the intrusions, McAfee does not highlight the fact that anti-
virus software did little to stop the attacks in the first place. In all likelihood all these various 
‘operations’ formed part of the same attack, with different groups or military units carrying 
out operations sponsored by the Chinese state. One attack that was clearly carefully 
planned, and equally linked to the others, was that conducted against RSA11, whereby 
attackers stole information which allowed them to replicate the SecurID tokens used by 
companies to authenticate individuals logging onto their networks from remote locations.  

Armed with those stolen credentials, an attacker would be able to log in to company 
networks as if a real user. The full extent of this breach has not been publicly disclosed, 
though we do know that Lockheed Martin was attacked and we can speculate that other 
defence contractors were also targeted. As full details of what was stolen have never been 
put into the public domain, we can only guess at the targeted information. Google claimed 
Intellectual Property had been stolen, though no further details were given. But these 
companies were all targeted for a reason. Data was identified that would somehow be of 
use to China. We will look at who laid out the requirements for this data next. 

                                                   

7 http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2010/01/new-approach-to-china.html  

8 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Aurora 

9 http://www.mcafee.com/ca/resources/white-papers/wp-global-energy-cyberattacks-
night-dragon.pdf 

10 http://www.mcafee.com/us/resources/white-papers/wp-operation-shady-rat.pdf 

11 http://www.rsa.com/node.aspx?id=3872  

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

8 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

The Requirements  

We should never think of Chinese cyber attacks as 
uncoordinated, random or indiscriminate. They target 
companies, governments or individuals because a specific 
requirement has been identified. Context has studied a 
number of Chinese government policies, documents and 
stated aspirations, as well as Chinese commercial structures, 
which may show why targets may have been picked; and 
may also help companies to gauge whether their business 
should consider itself to be at risk of being targeted by a 
Chinese attacker.  

The key documents are the Five Year Plan and the National 
Outline for Medium and Long Term S&T Development. We 
will also theorise around the (unwritten) intelligence 
requirements. We will then later investigate China’s state-owned enterprises as potential 
generators of requests for material to be stolen via targeted attacks; and as consumers of 
stolen data. 

The Five Year Plan is a series of development initiatives, both social and economic, that set 
high level goals for where the Communist Party would like to see the country in five years’ 
time. The latest Plan was finalised in October 2010 and applies to the period 2011 – 2015. It 
contains goals for urbanisation rates and targets for economic growth; details the foreign 
industries that will be invited to do business in China, the scale of proposed construction 
projects and areas of the country/economy where further development should be 
encouraged. These high level goals filter down to all government departments at national, 
regional and local level, where individual initiatives are managed. But the plan also hints at 
the areas where China feels it needs to concentrate its efforts, or where it needs to catch up 
with other countries elsewhere in the world.  

However, targeted attacks are ‘state sponsored’, which means that it is not the government 
that conducts the attack, but departments of the state or affiliated groups. When the 
government decides that, for example, it requires intelligence relating to US military 
operations in Afghanistan, different parts of the state intelligence apparatus will respond to 
this requirement, each bringing different skill sets to bear on the problem of finding the 
required information. For example, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has departments with 
access to satellite photography, which could provide information on troop movements. 
Another department may have access to Signals Intelligence (SIGINT), which intercepts 
communications. Chinese diplomats in the country will speak with their Afghan counterparts 
about the situation, while intelligence officers, perhaps in diplomatic or even non-official 
roles, are able to exploit human agents with access to useful reporting. To complement all of 
these sources, cyber attacks can be used against a variety of targets such as the Pentagon, 
military forces in theatre, the US embassy, defence contractors and representatives of the 
UN and NATO. As cyber proves its worth (if it hasn’t already) other parts of the government 
will seek to develop their own cyber capability to add to their existing capabilities, not 
wishing to be outshone by competing departments. 

One of the points on the Five Year Plan for instance is ‘More efficient development of 
nuclear power under the precondition of ensured safety’, which could suggest that any 
information gathering attacks against the nuclear energy industry (as opposed to sabotage 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

9 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

or Stuxnet12 style attacks) could be carried out with the express intention of supporting this 
part of the Plan.  

The attacks could be directed against nuclear plants themselves in an attempt to obtain 
operating information; construction companies, to steal building plans (which may also be 
of value to the military in case of war); regulatory bodies for rules, policies and procedures; 
and any of the hundreds of companies that build parts for the plant or develop technology 
used in the nuclear process.  

In terms of who could be carrying out the attacks, we have to consider not only the military 
(the Third Department of the PLA has the remit for cyber operations, though other areas are 
likely to have some capability too), but also nuclear construction companies, the 
government department with a remit for the energy industry, or any of the hacking groups 
that are closely affiliated to the state. Different campaigns may even be competing to steal 
the same information with the rewards going to the attackers who get it first. 

The Plan also advocates the development of high-end manufacturing, hi-tech industry, 
modern agriculture, high-speed rail and hydropower. The Plan does not explain in any detail 
how this development will be achieved, although in some cases it does specify that certain 
areas will be prioritised for direct foreign investment. In these cases, foreign firms are invited 
to partner with local firms to complete a project and engage in ‘technology transfer’. This 
means (officially) that the Chinese company will learn skills from the foreign company and 
develop their own capabilities in the area. Unofficially, it generally ends up with the foreign 
company having its IP and technology stolen and then finding that it no longer has an 
invitation to do business in the country. 

One good example of technology transfer can be seen in the area of high speed railways. 
Originally, trains were purchased from Kawasaki, Siemens and Bombardier and these 
manufacturers helped create the first high speed lines which opened in 2007. Soon 
afterwards China started to build its own high speed trains, modelled on those imported, but 
with reconfigured components. There is an ongoing legal case brought by Kawasaki and 
other Japanese companies relating to Chinese companies attempting to patent Kawasaki 
technology associated with high speed rail13. The current Chinese patent laws specify that 
the owner of a patent registered in China must be Chinese and that the Chinese holder will 
also be favoured over any foreign claim for the same technology.  

In July 2011 two high speed trains collided near Wenzhou, killing (according to state media) 
40 people. There were concerns that the trains contained stolen foreign technology and it 
has been suggested that this is why the wreckage was buried even before the rescue 
operation had been completed. It has also been suggested in certain quarters that burying 
the wreckage stopped any investigation by the manufacturers into what went wrong (and 
whether or not there was stolen technology present). This action attracted widespread 
criticism of the government, even from some sources within China. 

                                                   

12 http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-11388018  
13 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704814204575507353221141616.html  

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

10 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Boosting Domestic Enterprise 

If the Five Year Plan is short on detail, the National Outline for Medium and Long Term S&T 
Development is not. This policy essentially sets out the requirement for ‘Indigenous 
Innovation’, the areas where China should not rely on western technology, but should 
develop a home-grown alternative. The strong desire for domestic products stems from two 
issues. Firstly a suspicion that foreign technology could be used covertly in ways for which it 
was not originally intended it would be used (for the benefit of the attacking country). 
Secondly because in order to sustain high growth rates and satisfy domestic consumption it 
is better if China manufactures products of equal capability and sells them to its own market 
than it is to import goods at high prices. The plan for Indigenous Innovation drills down into 
each of the areas where China wants to develop a capability in some detail, even setting 
out priorities. The list of eleven areas comprises: 

 

Energy. Oil and gas exploration, distribution and power grids, low cost renewable 
energy, coal liquefaction, industrial energy efficiency 

  Water and Mineral Resources. Distribution, conservation, desalination, zoning and 

development of resources 

 

Environment. Pollutant control and recycling, restoration of vulnerable ecosystems, 
maritime ecosystem protection, environmental change 

  Agriculture. Genetic resource development, disease prevention, use of agro-forest 

biomass, multifunctional farming equipment, modern dairy industry 

  Manufacturing Industry. Basic/generic parts/components, digital intelligent design, 
recycling iron and steel, marine engineering technology, engineering processes for 
the defence industry 

 

Transportation. Construction and maintenance technology, high speed rail, energy 
efficient cars, traffic control systems, alternative fuel based cars  

  Modern Service Industry. Next generation Internet technology, high performance 

computers, digital media content platforms, HD displays 

 

Population / Health. Treatment of diseases, medical processes 

  Urbanisation. Green buildings, architectural energy efficiencies 

 

Public Security. Security warning systems, bio-safety measures 

  Defence. [Classified] 

In addition to these areas, which already contain a lot of areas that targeted western 
companies operate in, there is a further list of 16 ‘Major Special Projects’. These projects are 
intended to add to the overall strength of China. Previous examples of such projects include 
the development of the hydrogen bomb, launching satellites, manned space flights and 
hybrid rice. They are intended also to be a source of national pride. If one can see the 
potential for cyber attack to enhance many of the areas outlined above, the list below 
gives even more scope for the targeted theft of data from companies and governments 
around the world: 

  Core electronic components, high-end general use chips and basic software 

products 

 

Large-scale integrated circuit manufacturing equipment and techniques 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

11 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

  New generation broadband wireless mobile communication networks 

  Advanced numeric-controlled machinery and basic manufacturing technology 

 

 

Large-scale oil and gas exploration 

Large advanced nuclear reactors 

  Water pollution control and treatment 

  Breeding new varieties of genetically modified organisms 

  Pharmaceutical innovation and development 

  Control and treatment of AIDS, hepatitis, and other major diseases 

 

Large aircraft 

  High-definition earth observation system 

  Manned spaceflight and lunar probe programs 

  Classified military projects (x3) 

If we take the Major Special Projects as a Chinese technology wish list, we can assume there 
are two different methods that could be used to achieve these goals. The first involves 
funding research programmes in universities and companies, educating people over the 
long term and encouraging a culture of research, development and innovation and an 
acceptance that achievements in some areas will fall short of expectation.  

The second way of viewing the challenge is that much of this technology already exists in 
the rest of the world, is already proven and is (relatively) easy to obtain. Far easier to steal 
the work of others, re-engineer it, improve it if practicable and necessary and be seen to be 
contributing to the progression of the Chinese state; and to do so may also be personally 
rewarding for members of the Party. Failure to achieve these goals would almost certainly 
be seen as unacceptable. 

At Risk 

The companies that generate the target information are not the only ones at risk. We can 
also assume that the companies that support these areas – lawyers, sub-contractors, 
outsourced suppliers and any government departments with links to these firms, would also 
be attacked as part of an effort to find supporting information.  

So long as the product is intended for domestic consumption only, in many cases there are 
minimal problems for the company targeted to have to face. Many firms would be unwilling 
or unable to sell their products into China anyway – either because of a lack of global 
distribution networks, or because of export restrictions, in the case of sensitive military 
technologies, so the sale of an identical, stolen product would not directly harm their 
business.  

For example, a company that makes hi-tech export controlled widgets for the US military is 
unlikely to be able to sell its product in China to the Chinese military. In any case, the 
Chinese military would probably prefer to buy a Chinese product. If the widget designs are 
stolen and a Chinese company makes the exact same widget, protected by a Chinese 
patent, the end product could be sold to the PLA. While the original manufacturer may 
rightly be concerned by this, the company would not suffer financially. Until, that is, the 
product made by the Chinese firm is offered for sale around the world at a much cheaper 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

12 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

price than that for which the original product is sold, because the Chinese firm has not 
needed to fund R&D. At this point, buyers who simply want a widget that works will buy the 
cheaper one. 

The National Outline document goes on to specify ‘Frontier Technologies’: areas such as 
biotech, IT, advanced materials and manufacturing technologies, energy and marine 
technology, lasers and (again) aerospace, all areas in which the West has traditionally 
excelled and China has lagged behind. 

The other key area that could lead to a requirement for cyber attacks is China’s 
intelligence-gathering operation. This area is primarily controlled by the Party rather than the 
intelligence services themselves. Requirements in this area are likely to incorporate generic 
tasks to infiltrate and disrupt the activities of the Five Poisons (see above), to gather military 
secrets from overseas and highlight politically useful information. That could be, for example, 
intelligence on economic policies of the Eurozone countries regarding China, NATO plans 
for Afghanistan, international efforts to negotiate with North Korea or reports into human 
rights abuses.  

The intelligence services will use all of their sources – HUMINT, SIGINT and cyber – to address 
these requirements. As the list is never published we can only guess at what it contains, but 
one may speculate that if intensive investigations focused on the detection of cyber attacks 
against the Five Poisons (the GhostNet14 report was an excellent start), it is likely that the 
same malware and infrastructure would be revealed to have been deployed. 

                                                   

14 http://www.scribd.com/doc/13731776/Tracking-GhostNet-Investigating-a-Cyber-
Espionage-Network 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

13 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

How Does it Happen? 

If we consider only the Chinese cyber attacks that have been reported we are only looking 
at the tip of the iceberg. First, we tend only to see reports of British or American firms being 
attacked, and we know that only a tiny minority of incidents are reported, because firms are 
either unaware they have been attacked or are afraid that publicising an incident will 
damage their brand, their company value or their personal careers. It is also likely that there 
is a huge number of small to medium sized enterprises around the world that have no idea 
that their crown jewels have been stolen.  

Governments are unlikely to admit having lost data or to accuse China directly, for fear of 
risking negative political and economic consequences. Individual victims living in China will 
be unable to complain at the intrusion to their privacy, while those outside China may have 
little recourse to any organisation which would take their claims seriously. 

To map out the process and try to think about the scale of the attacks we must start with a 
classic diagram of the intelligence cycle.  

 

 

 

Setting Requirements 

As we have already seen, China has no issue in identifying requirements. These lie across the 
industrial, social and economic spectrum and represent the results of a mammoth effort to 
identify weaknesses and areas for further development. Given that the requirements are 
largely focussed around technical, economic and commercial development rather than 
social development it is fair to expect that this exercise was not conducted by government 
alone, but must have been supplemented by private sector (so far as there is one). 
However, the setting of requirements covers many more areas than just cyber, so it would 
not be correct to regard this effort as having been conducted simply to support electronic 
attacks. 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

14 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Planning and Direction 

This is where things get a little bit complicated. Planning and direction activities take place 
on multiple levels – at a Party level, regional level, local level, within every key government 
department, inside every company with a stake in fulfilling the requirements; and especially 
within the military, who evidence suggests are behind the bulk of targeted attacks. 

Collection 

This area covers the whole process of target 
identification, malware development, crafting the 
attacks, designing the social engineering, initiating 
attacks, controlling implants, escalating privileges on 
the victim network, uploading further tools to maintain 
and develop access, finding and exfiltrating data of 
interest, and cleaning up traces of the attack to hinder 
investigations.  

It also requires infrastructure (owned or stolen) to be 
constructed to support the attack, IP addresses or 
domain names updated into the implants, training of 
operators, language skills, management and some 
form of quality control process to enable some visibility 
over how well attacks are progressing.  

While much of the attack process can be automated 
or simplified so it can be delegated to less technically 
adept operators, the scale of the attack is such that 
many skilled hackers will be needed in an advisory capacity, to conduct manual elements 
of the attack, to maintain a development program and, in some cases, to share details of 
the latest attack vectors and vulnerabilities with those tasked with cyber defence to protect 
Chinese systems from similar attacks. There will also almost certainly be an administration 
process that logs attacks and targets, collates information on target systems, feeds data into 
some form of risk assessment and ensures that all ongoing attacks are focussed on the 
attainment of a specific requirement. This is no small operation. 

Processing and Exploitation 

If 1,000 attacks are successful and all result in large amounts of data being stolen from 
compromised systems, that data needs to be put into a readable format (and decrypted if 
necessary), made searchable, stored in a database and translated into Chinese – and all 
these operations have to be carried out in bulk and in real time or something close to it, to 
allow that information to be used as quickly and effectively as possible. Of course, the 
actual number of active compromises at any one time is likely to be many magnitudes 
higher than 1,000! 

Analysis and Production 

The first problem with analysing bulk amounts of data  translated from other languages is 
that machine translation is often of low quality, particularly for data such as emails written 
using more colloquial terms. The second issue is that a large proportion of the stolen 
documents is likely to be of a highly technical nature: If you steal documents from a widget 
maker then you need at least a basic knowledge of widgets to be able to understand the 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

15 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

potential value of a document and how best to exploit it. If there is a lot of widget data you 
will need a lot of widget specialists or risk the data being out of date by the time it is 
analysed. And just because someone understands widgets doesn’t mean that they 
understand gizmos, so another team will be required to look at that data – and so on. These 
analysts will provide feedback to operators, perhaps saying ‘get more’, or ‘this is no good, 
get something else’. They may also provide search terms for documents. All this analysis will 
then need to be written up into reports which should try to protect the source of the 
information. 

Dissemination 

If the information is to be useful the reporting process has to be fast, in order to get useful 
information to the right people. Dissemination of intelligence reports to security and 
intelligence officers should be straightforward as all people in the process will have 
clearances. But we can assume (although there are no guarantees) that this information is 
highly classified and dissemination is carefully controlled, which makes disseminating it to 
government officials a little more difficult, especially if those officials are based outside 
Beijing, because encrypted links or maybe a network of trusted couriers will be required to 
transport the reports.  

The most difficult task will be delivering reports on commercial or technical development to 
the right people. The most trusted individuals will be at the top of organisations, probably as 
a result of their loyalty to the Party, but these are not necessarily the people able to 
understand, interpret and exploit the information contained within the report. So the report 
or elements of it must be passed downwards to those who do understand it. This means a 
significant increase in the number of people who are aware, which represents a significant 
risk. The Party must also decide to which companies it will pass information – if five 
companies all produce widgets do you give the information on next generation widgets to 
one of them, or all of them? We will look at one way the Party addresses this issue below.  

Getting the dissemination right should in turn generate more requirements and help to 
create a more refined requirement to feed back into the process and drive the next data 
acquisition cycle. 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

16 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

The Scale of the Operation 

Most authorities attribute responsibility for cyber attacks and intelligence gathering to the 
Third Department of the PLA (3PLA) and accept that the Second Department (2PLA) may 
also have a role to play. Accurate figures for the size of these Departments are not publicly 
available, but the more success the attackers have, the more funding they are likely to get 
for further attacks. Other branches of the military may then see the possibility for increased 
funding and political glory by competing in the same space.  One very thorough report by 
Project 204915, a group who analyse the Asian security landscape among other topics, 
details the Third Department of the PLA and outlines their broader activities and structure. 
Their role is primarily SIGINT aimed at intercepting radio, telecoms and email 
communications and reporting the content as intelligence. The report contains a figure 
(though they make clear this is estimated) of 130,000 people being part of the 3PLA. The 
2PLA is concerned with Human Intelligence (HUMINT) as well as SIGINT to support its military 
intelligence mission. 

So trying to work out how many people are involved in this process is only ever going to be 
based on educated guesswork. If we look simply at the effort in the 3PLA, put aside all other 
groups for now and take the figure of 130,000 as true, there is a very large pool of available 
personnel who are able to support cyber operations. However, as we have stated above, 
the 3PLA has a remit broader than simply cyber and other areas are far more established. 

Numbers working in the requirements capture and planning area are probably in the low 
hundreds. Trying to gauge the size of the collection effort is difficult and requires a large 
margin of error. But it is fair to assume that several hundred people could do the target 
development work; around a hundred dedicated specialists could work on malware 
development (with the Chinese hacking community providing new tools at regular 
intervals); perhaps one or two thousand low level operators (the ‘B’ team) supported by 
another few hundred with more advanced skills (the ‘A’ team) who look after the most 
sensitive intrusions; an infrastructure team of a few dozen; and an operational security team 
of a few dozen more. 

Then come the processing and analysis experts: potentially a pool of several thousand 
specialists able to read and write in a wide variety of languages; hundreds if not thousands 
of specialists in all of the fields of information being stolen – politics, economics, engineering, 
IT, science, etc; hundreds of report writers; dozens of people processing data; and dozens 
more administering the whole process. 

If these very rough figures are anywhere close to reality, at least 7,000 people are directly 
involved in hacking foreign computer networks for the Chinese military and processing the 
output of those attacks. Potentially many thousands more see the reporting and are aware 
of the sorts of results generated by these operations. 

                                                   

15http://project2049.net/documents/pla_third_department_sigint_cyber_stokes_lin_hsiao.pdf 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

17 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Profiting from the Product 

So who is most likely to profit from the information being gathered through these attacks? 
The political, economic and intelligence reporting has a clear audience, but deciding who 
the commercial intelligence should be passed to presents a more taxing problem. Which 
companies receive this kind of assistance? The answer may lie in the particular brand of 
capitalism which China 
practices.  

China is no longer the 
planned economy it once 
was and some Chinese 
companies are now among 
the largest in the world. But 
this is not capitalism as we 
know it and these companies 
are far from being truly 
‘private’. All the largest 
companies in China are State 
Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in 
which the state is the largest 
(or only) shareholder. The 
state can and does change company board members at will and members of the armed 
forces are routinely brought into senior management roles. But in addition to simply 
appointing the heads of companies, the Party also has a final say over the strategic 
direction of each company, business planning processes and the size of salaries paid to 
employees. After all, if companies are seen to be profiting unfairly at the expense of the 
workers that could lead to political unrest. 

There are currently 117 companies classed as SOEs and under the control of the State-
owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), the primary shareholder 
in these companies. To give some idea of the scale of SOEs, they now comprise 80% of the 
value of China’s stock market. Yet in the last 10 years, the number of SOEs has almost halved 
as SASAC has pushed through mergers of companies with similar strengths to consolidate 
the overall power of these companies in various sectors and make them more competitive 
outside China. SASAC works alongside the Communist Party’s Organisation Department, 
which acts as a human resources department and makes certain that those running these 
businesses care every bit as much (if not more) about pleasing Party bosses as they do 
about their success in business.  

In addition to the Party’s input to the strategies pursued by these companies, the state is also 
instrumental in guiding them to financial success by other means. Most significantly it 
arranges cheap lines of credit, allowing companies to borrow money for expansion; and 
provides a ready-made market for the company – the Party has the ability to block 
competitors from any industry or to introduce policies which make competitors more 
expensive. The state can also provide considerable human resources if a particular 
company or industry needs to increase production suddenly: large pools of labour in China 
work for the state rather than companies and so form a mobile and flexible workforce. But if 
at the end of the day the products or services a company offers are outdated or of poor 
quality, that company will fail. The Party has a vested interest in every SOE performing well 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

18 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

and becoming a national or global champion in its sector, so it may be willing to extend 
help through the leveraging of intelligence sources. Note the list of companies and sectors 
in Appendix A: it is clear that the companies on the list all have interests in areas which will 
support the Five Year Plan and Indigenous Innovation. 

Hypothetical Case Study: Aircraft Construction 

One good example of how the Party could use its intelligence collection methods to benefit 
an SOE is seen in the case of COMAC16, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China. 
COMAC is currently trying to build a large aircraft to compete with the likes of Boeing and 
Airbus. In an excellent in-depth paper on Indigenous Innovation17, the US Chamber of 
Commerce and strategic consulting firm ACPO Worldwide18 detail the desire of China to 
build an aircraft since the crash (and subsequent re-engineering) of a Pakistan Airlines 
Boeing 707 in 1971. The re-engineered plane named the Yun-10 was a complete failure as 
China did not at that time possess all the necessary technology required to make it a 
success.   

With a rise in the use of air transport within China, domestic carriers are being forced to buy 
foreign aircraft at enormous cost, whereas a home-grown aircraft could be sold much more 
cheaply. The COMAC C91919 is designed to rival the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 and 
planned to be operating by 2015, and to encourage foreign companies to share their 
technology, China has promised access to the market. Companies including Parker 
Aerospace, General Electric, Honeywell and Goodrich have all signed up. Whether they 
benefit from this move in the long term, or are instead encouraged to leave once they have 
been bled dry of useful information, remains to be seen. But for all the help they are getting, 
Chinese engineers are not yet able to access the technology developed by Boeing and 
Airbus, or by large aeroplane engine suppliers such as Rolls Royce.  

We know therefore that there is intent to build a domestic airliner and that previously re-
engineering has been attempted. Technology transfer is ongoing at the moment, but how 
(hypothetically) could computer network exploitation attacks help China achieve its goal? 

It is hard to imagine that a project of that size would not be given some assistance by the 
government, given that there is national pride at stake. If intelligence or military resources 
could be directed against Boeing and Airbus networks there would be some very quick wins. 
Not only could design documents and technical information be stolen en masse and 
without the need to actually deal with the company, but there could be some weak links in 
the supply chains of these companies which would help an attacker to penetrate their 
networks. 

First, smaller suppliers would provide an easy target from where attacks could be launched 
directly, spoofing emails with Trojans to improve the chance of recipients opening them. 
Second, both companies have facilities in China, presumably with network connectivity 
which may provide a direct route into the main network. There are also Chinese citizens 
working for the two target organisations who could be tasked to download something 
nefarious or plug in a USB drive to help their country.  

                                                   

16 http://english.comac.cc/  
17 http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/reports/100728chinareport_0.pdf 
18 http://www.apcoworldwide.com/  
19 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comac_C919  

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

19 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Finally all large organisations share large amounts of their data with third parties such as law 
firms and consultants; companies that may not protect their networks as effectively as  the 
target company. These ‘data aggregators’ can present a major vulnerability in the security 
of sensitive data. 

The end goal of the project is to sell the aircraft worldwide and to undercut the established 
suppliers. COMAC could achieve this by using lines of credit at favourable rates from the 
Chinese banks that would help to make deals cheaper for airlines purchasing aircraft. But 
what really helps these companies undercut foreign rivals is that they have not needed to 
spend huge amounts of money on R&D to get the plane off the ground in the first place.  

If designs for the body of the aircraft could be stolen along with aerodynamic information it 
would cut development time by years; and by billions of dollars. If stolen engine designs 
were also used that would cut costs further still. Even if the companies from whom this 
technology had been stolen were able to see that it had been stolen, they would only be 
able to take limited action in response; and to do so could put at risk their continued ability 
to operate or sell in China.  

The list of SOEs in “Appendix A” is dominated by transport companies (rail, aerospace and 
shipping), energy (petrochemical, nuclear, power generation/distribution, hydro), telecoms 
(mobile, infrastructure), manufacturing, extraction/metals (coal, iron, steel, minerals, 
aluminium) and trading companies. If a company has been targeted by Chinese state 
sponsored cyber espionage, we believe that any information stolen probably ends up in 
one of these SOEs. While China is able to manipulate market conditions in various ways to 
help SOEs prosper, nothing would contribute more to their growth and success than a supply 
of inside information about the activities of their competitors and customers. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

20 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Conclusion 

This situation has not developed overnight. These attacks have been going on for years: 
many reports detail intrusions going back to 2003 and earlier. It is quite possible that the 
targets of early attacks were merely foreign governments and dissidents and that the range 
of targets only broadened with the opening of the Chinese economy and an increased 
demand for intelligence to support business growth and projects of national importance. 
The more success the attackers had, the more that demand grew. While China continues to 
carry out cyber attacks on companies throughout the rest of the world and these attacks 
continue either unnoticed or unpunished, there is no incentive for China to stop. The more 
that stolen data is exploited for the benefit of companies and the government, the greater 
the incentive to continue with these operations. 

Governments and large companies do not appear to be making much headway in solving 
this problem. For large corporations in the West, where there is a tendency to focus more on 
the short term and on personal achievement rather than the long term advancement of the 
state, the potential riches which trade with China offers are so large that turning a blind eye 
to data theft may seem a reasonable price to pay. Governments dare not risk isolation from 
China for economic and political reasons. Norway has recently been shut out of Chinese 
relations after awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to a jailed Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo20. Its 
trade links with China are minimal, so it can afford to do this, but few other countries would 
feel able to do the same. A combination of this reluctance to act, chronic under-investment 
in IT and a lack of user education about how to spot the warning signs of a potential attack 
means companies and organisations are extremely vulnerable. 

In order to start rectifying the problem there is a need in the first instance to understand the 
problem. There needs to be an acceptance that this problem is not going to go away, that 
this is a business risk not at IT issue. Doing business with China carries extra risk in terms of data 
security and traditional security products are unable to defend your data against this type 
of attack. Investigation of compromises needs to be thorough and conducted by people 
familiar with this problem and not simply the technical aspects of it. Above all sensitive data 
must be segregated – it is not possible to defend everything. 

The reason targeted attacks pose such a dangerous threat is that these are not viruses 
which simply spread and act according to a set of defined rules in the software. There are 
human beings directing these attacks in a much more active way. They have been given 
specific duties and will not stop what they are doing until someone tells them to do so.  

If your data is of interest today, it will still be of interest tomorrow. If you have been attacked 
once and somehow managed to stop it, you have only stopped one instance of the attack, 
not the attack as a whole. The malware used simply provides a foothold in the network, an 
initial point of access through which other tools can be uploaded to allow attackers access 
over the longer term, to navigate through the network until they find the data of interest to 
them. If one technique doesn’t work, they will adapt their methods and raise their game 
until they have success. 

It may be that one day western governments will decide that ‘if you can’t beat them, join 
them’ and develop similar capabilities to be used against foreign governments and 

                                                   

20 http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-11505164  

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

21 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

companies. We can only speculate as to how China might react to the large-scale 
targeting of its own companies and institutions. As for now, we have limited evidence of 
large companies failing as a direct result of the attacks, though there seems to be 
consensus that Chinese intrusions at least contributed to the downfall of one time telecoms 
giant Nortel21. We do not yet know how many others may follow. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                   

21 http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2012/02/15/nortel-hacking-shields-as-it-
happens.html 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

22 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

About Context 

Context Information Security is an independent security consultancy specialising in both 
technical security and information assurance services. 

The company was founded in 1998.  Its client base has grown steadily over the years, thanks 
in large part to personal recommendations from existing clients who value us as business 
partners. We believe our success is based on the value our clients place on our product-
agnostic, holistic approach; the way we work closely with them to develop a tailored 
service; and to the independence, integrity and technical skills of our consultants. 

Context are ideally placed to work with clients worldwide with offices in the UK, Australia 
and Germany. 

The company’s client base now includes some of the most prestigious blue chip companies 
in the world, as well as government organisations. 

The best security experts need to bring a broad portfolio of skills to the job, so Context has 
always sought to recruit staff with extensive business experience as well as technical 
expertise. Our aim is to provide effective and practical solutions, advice and support: when 
we report back to clients we always communicate our findings and recommendations in 
plain terms at a business level as well as in the form of an in-depth technical report. 

 

 

 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

23 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

Appendix 

No. 

Company Name 

Website 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

China National 
Nuclear 
Corporation 

China Nuclear 
Engineering Group 
Corporation 

China Aerospace 
Science and 
Technology 
Corporation 

China Aerospace 
Science and 
Industry 
Corporation 

Aviation Industry 
Corporation of 
China 

China State 
Shipbuilding 
Corporation 

China Shipbuilding 
Industry 
Corporation 

China North 
Industries Group 
Corporation 

China South 
Industries Group 
Corporation 

China Electronics 
Technology Group 
Corporation 

China National 
Petroleum 
Corporation 

China 
Petrochemical 
Corporation 

http://www.cnnc.com.cn 

http://www.cnecc.com 

http://www.spacechina.com 

http://www.casic.com.cn 

http://www.avic.com.cn 

http://www.cssc.net.cn 

http://www.csic.com.cn 

http://www.norincogroup.com.cn 

http://www.csgc.com.cn 

http://www.cetc.com.cn 

http://www.cnpc.com.cn/cn 

http://www.sinopecgroup.c
om 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

24 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

Company Name 

Website 

China National 
Offshore Oil 
Corporation 

State Grid 
Corporation of 
China 

http://www.cnooc.com.cn 

http://www.sgcc.com.cn 

China Southern 
Power Grid Co., Ltd. 

http://www.csg.cn 

China Huaneng 
Group 

China Datang 
Corporation 

China Huadian 
Corporation 

China Guodian 
Corporation 

China Power 
Investment 
Corporation 

China Three Gorges 
Corporation 

Shenhua Group 
Corporation Limited 

China 
Telecommunication
s Corporation 

China United 
Network 
Communications 
Group Co., Ltd. 

China Mobile 
Communications 
Corporation 

China Electronics 
Corporation 

China FAW Group 
Corporation 

http://www.chng.com.cn 

http://www.china-cdt.com 

http://www.chd.com.cn 

http://www.cgdc.com.cn 

http://www.cpicorp.com.cn 

http://www.ctgpc.com.cn/ 

http://www.shenhuagroup.com.cn 

http://www.chinatelecom.com.cn 

http://www.chinaunicom.com.cn 

http://www.10086.cn 

http://www.cec.com.cn 

http://www.faw.com.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

25 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

Company Name 

Website 

Dongfeng Motor 
Corporation 

China First Heavy 
Industries 

China National 
Erzhong Group Co. 

Harbin Electric 
Corporation 

Dongfang Electric 
Corporation 

Anshan Iron and 
Steel Group 
Corporation 

Baosteel Group 
Corporation 

Wuhan Iron and 
Steel (Group) 
Corporation 

Aluminum 
Corporation of 
China 

China Ocean 
Shipping (Group) 
Company 

China Shipping 
(Group) Company 

China National 
Aviation Holding 
Company 

China Eastern Air 
Holding Company 

China Southern Air 
Holding Company 

http://www.dfmc.com.cn 

http://www.cfhi.com 

http://www.china-
erzhong.com 

http://www.hpec.com 

http://www.dongfang.com 

http://www.ansteelgroup.com 

http://www.baosteel.com 

http://www.wisco.com.cn 

http://www.chalco.com.cn 

http://www.cosco.com 

http://www.cnshipping.com 

http://www.airchinagroup.com 

http://www.ceair.com 

http://www.csair.cn 

Sinochem Group 

http://www.sinochem.com 

COFCO Limited 

http://www.cofco.com 

China Minmetals 
Corporation 

http://www.minmetals.com.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

26 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

50 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 

56 

57 

Company Name 

Website 

China General 
Technology 
(Group) Holding, 
Limited 

China State 
Construction 
Engineering 
Corporation 

China Grain 
Reserves 
Corporation 

State Development 
& Investment Corp. 

China Merchants 
Group 

http://www.genertec.com.cn 

http://www.cscec.com 

http://www.sinograin.com.cn 

http://www.sdic.com.cn 

http://www.cmhk.com 

China Resources 

http://www.crc.com.hk 

China National 
Travel Service (HK) 
Group Corporation 
[China Travel 
Service (Holdings) 
Hong Kong Limited] 

State Nuclear 
Power Technology 
Corporation Ltd. 

Commercial 
Aircraft Corporation 
of China, Ltd. 

China Energy 
Conservation and 
Environmental 
Protection Group 

China International 
Engineering 
Consulting 
Corporation 

China Huafu Trade 
& Development 
Group Corp. 

China Chengtong 
Holdings Group Ltd. 

http://www.hkcts.com 

http://www.snptc.com.cn 

http://www.comac.cc 

http://www.cecic.com.cn 

http://www.ciecc.com.cn 

http://www.hfjt.com.cn 

http://www.cctgroup.com.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

27 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

58 

59 

60 

61 

62 

63 

64 

65 

66 

67 

68 

69 

70 

71 

Company Name 

Website 

China National 
Coal Group Corp. 

China Coal 
Technology & 
Engineering Group 
Corp. 

China National 
Machinery Industry 
Corporation 

China Academy of 
Machinery Science 
& Technology 

Sinosteel 
Corporation 

China Metallurgical 
Group Corporation 

China Iron & Steel 
Research Institute 
Group 

China National 
Chemical 
Corporation 

China National 
Chemical 
Engineering Group 
Corporation 

Sinolight 
Corporation 

China National Arts 
& Crafts (Group) 
Corporation 

China National Salt 
Industry 
Corporation 

Huacheng 
Investment & 
Management Co., 
Ltd. 

China Hengtian 
Group Co., Ltd. 

http://www.chinacoal.com 

http://www.ccteg.cn 

http://www.sinomach.com.cn 

http://www.cam.com.cn 

http://www.sinosteel.com 

http://www.mcc.com.cn 

http://www.cisri.com.cn 

http://www.chemchina.com 

http://www.cncec.cn 

http://www.sinolight.cn 

http://www.cnacgc.com 

http://www.chinasalt.com.cn 

Unknown 

http://www.chtgc.com 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

28 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

72 

73 

74 

75 

76 

77 

78 

79 

80 

81 

82 

83 

Company Name 

Website 

China National 
Materials Group 
Corporation Ltd. 

China National 
Building Materials 
Group Corporation 

China Nonferrous 
Metal Mining 
(Group) Co., Ltd. 

General Research 
Institute for 
Nonferrous Metals 

Beijing General 
Research Institute 
of Mining & 
Metallurgy 

China International 
Intellectech 
Corporation 

China Academy of 
Building Research 

China North 
Locomotive and 
Rolling Stock 
Industry (Group) 
Corporation 

China South 
Locomotive & 
Rolling Stock 
Corporation Limited 

China Railway 
Signal & 
Communication 
Corporation 

China Railway 
Group Limited 

China Railway 
Construction 
Corporation Limited 

http://www.sinoma.cn 

http://www.cnbm.com.cn 

http://www.cnmc.com.cn 

http://www.grinm.com 

http://www.bgrimm.com 

http://www.ciic.com.cn 

http://www.cabr.com.cn 

http://www.chinacnr.com 

http://www.csrgc.com.cn 

http://www.crsc.cn 

http://www.crecg.com 

http://www.crcc.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

29 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

84 

85 

86 

87 

88 

89 

90 

91 

92 

93 

94 

95 

96 

97 

98 

Company Name 

Website 

China 
Communications 
Construction 
Company Limited 

Potevio Company 
Limited 

China Academy of 
Telecommunication 
and Technology 

China National 
Agricultural 
Development 
Group Co., Ltd. 

Chinatex 
Corporation 

Sinotrans & CSC 
Holdings Co., Ltd. 

China National Silk 
Import & Export 
Corporation 

China Forestry 
Group Corporation 

China National 
Pharmaceutical 
Group Corporation 

CITS Group 
Corporation 

China Poly Group 
Corporation 

Zhuhai ZhenRong 
Company 

China Architecture 
Design & Research 
Group 

China Metallurgical 
Geology Bureau 

China National 
Administration of 
Coal Geology 

http://www.ccgrp.com.cn 

http://www.potevio.com 

http://www.datanggroup.cn 

http://www.cnadc.com.cn 

http://www.chinatex.com 

http://www.sinotrans-csc.com 

http://www.chinasilk.com 

http://www.cfgc.cn 

http://www.sinopharm.com 

http://www.citsgroup.com.cn 

http://www.citsgroup.com.cn 

http://www.zhzrgs.com.cn 

http://www.cadreg.com.cn 

http://www.cmgb.com.cn 

http://www.ccgc.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

30 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

99 

100 

101 

102 

103 

104 

105 

106 

107 

108 

109 

110 

111 

Company Name 

Website 

Xinxing Cathay 
International Group 
Co., Ltd. 

China Travelsky 
Holding Company 

China National 
Aviation Fuel Group 
Corporation 

China Aviation 
Supplies Holding 
Company 

Power Construction 
Corporation of 
China 

China Energy 
Engineering Group 
Co., Ltd 

China National 
Gold Group 
Corporation 

China National 
Cotton Reserves 
Corporation 

China Printing 
(Group) 
Corporation 

China Guangdong 
Nuclear Power 
Holding 
Corporation Ltd. 

China Hualu Group 
Co., Ltd. 

Alcatel-Lucent 
Shanghai Bell Co., 
Ltd. 

IRICO Group 
Corporation 

http://www.xxcig.com 

http://www.travelskyholding
s.com 

http://www.cnaf.com 

http://www.casc.com.cn 

http://www.zhongguodianjian.com 

http://www.ceec.net.cn 

http://www.chinagoldgroup.com 

http://www.cncrc.com.cn 

http://www.cpgc.cn 

http://www.cgnpc.com.cn 

http://www.hualu.com.cn 

http://www.alcatel-
sbell.com.cn 

http://www.ch.com.cn 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

31 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

No. 

112 

113 

114 

115 

116 

117 

 

 

Company Name 

Website 

Wuhan Research 
Institute of Post and 
Telecommunication
s 

http://www.wri.com.cn 

OCT Group 

http://www.chinaoct.com 

Nam Kwong 
(Group) Company 
Limited 

http://www.namkwong.com
.mo 

China XD Group 

http://www.xd.com.cn 

China Railway 
Materials 
Commercial Corp. 

China Reform 
Holdings 
Corporation Ltd. 

http://www.crmsc.com.cn 

http://www.crhc.cn/n127514
92/index.html 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

32 / 33 

 

Whitepaper /   

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Stolen Data 
 

 

 

Context Information Security Ltd 

 

London 
(HQ) 

4th Floor 

30 Marsh Wall 

Cheltenham  

Düsseldorf  

Melbourne 

Corinth House 

117 Bath Road 

Adersstr. 28, 1.OG 

Level 9, 440 Collins St 

D-40215 Düsseldorf 

Melbourne 

London E14 9TP 

Cheltenham GL53 7LS 

Germany 

United Kingdom 

United Kingdom 

Victoria 3000 

Australia 

 

Context Information Security 

30 Marsh Wall, London, E14 9TP 

 +44 (0) 207 537 7515 

   www.contextis.com 

33 / 33 

 

