"Wicked Rose" and the NCPH Hacking Group 
by Ken Dunham & Jim Melnick 
 
Zero-day attacks, where an attack occurs before public knowledge of a vulnerability is known, is 
a growing cause of concern for security professionals in the 21st century.  An unprecedented 
number of zero-day attacks took place in 2006, largely involving Microsoft Office Files.  Ken 
Dunham, Director of the Rapid Response Team, and Jim Melnick, Director of Threat Operations, 
led the VeriSign iDefense intelligence team to track down Chinese hackers for hire out of China, 
responsible for many of the attacks in 2006.  Wicked Rose is the ring-leader of the NCPH 
hacking group and this is the story of their maturation into significant global threat by 2006. 

1  Introduction to N.C.P.H. 
 
N.C.P.H. (Network Crack Program Hacker) has about ten members or associates.  Four core 
members exist as of 2006: 
 

(Wicked) Rose 

 
  KuNgBiM 
  Rodag 
  Charles   

 
There are also some six other associates within NCPH and two other positions (possibly unfilled 
positions) whose purpose is unclear.  However, “Rose” or “Wicked Rose” seems to be the 
primary leader. Membership rules, recruiting goals and standards are unknown. However, some 
members appear to be current or former students of Sichuan University of Science and 
Engineering.1 
 
The group is responsible for development and deployment of exploit codes related vulnerabilities 
in Microsoft Word Malformed OLE Structure Code Execution and Microsoft Excel Malformed 
BIFF Structure Code Execution.  

2  Public Knowledge of a Zero-Day Word Exploit 
 
The story of NCPH zero-day attacks begins publicly on May 18, 2006.  On this day the Internet 
Storm Center reports a new possible zero-day attack.  iDefense worked closely with SANS and 
other organizations to analyze the threat landscape as it related to exploitation of this 
vulnerability. Within the next 36 hours, iDefense gained access to multiple codes and extracted a 
new rootkit called GinWui.  Independent research proved the following: 
 

  Exploitation targeted a new vulnerability that allowed attackers to successfully exploit 

computers running fully patched versions of Microsoft Word 2002 and others. 

  Exploitation dated to May 12, 2006 and involved at least six unique hostile exploit files. 
iDefense confirmed that attacks targeted two organizations, one in the United States and 
one in Japan. 

  Chinese-authored rootkits GinWui.A and GinWui.B exist in several attacks. iDefense 
identified the rootkits' source and authors as Chinese actor "Wicked Rose" and others 
profiled later in this report. 

                                                           
1
 www.suse.edu.cn & http://www.study-in-china.org/school/Sichuan/suse/ 
  

  Successful installation of the rootkit requires Administrator or Debugger rights. Initial 

 

exploitation, however, does not require Administrator rights.   
iDefense identified unique malicious code attacks pointing to nease.net and authored 
several Snort signatures for this traffic. iDefense continues to monitor other domains 
related to the attack. 

 
The original attack upon a large DoD entity within the USA began on May 12, 2006.  Targets of 
the attacker were apparently "Googled" by the attacker.  Three variations of a Microsoft Word 
zero-day attack are involved in the attack.  A few dozen attack files are first distributed to less 
than a dozen targets to identify which version works within the organization.   
 
Once attackers identify the vulnerable version of Microsoft Word used within the organization 
close to 200 messages sent out to multiple targets within the organization within 24 hours.  This 
second wave of attack is distributed as "Planning document 5-16-2006.doc".  This code is 
improved beyond the first variant sent out earlier to identify the vulnerable version of Word 
within the targeted network. 
 
A third attack commences on May 17, 2006.  During this period, the Internet Storm Center and 
others get involved and the case becomes public.  In the end, iDefense identified six unique 
samples, of which three are more prevalent than other variants.   

3  The GinWui Backdoor Rootkit Payload 
 
Zero day attacks commenced in May 2006 attempted to install a GinWui backdoor Trojan horse 
and Windows rootkit.  A DLL file called winguis.dll and several SYS files install themselves 
when a computer is successfully attacked through an exploit.  Two versions of the GinWui 
rootkit are installed during several attacks in May and June 2006.   
 

NCHP 5.0 Screenshot (GinWui Rootkit) 

 

 
Wicked Rose is the author of the GinWui malicious code.  His code and support posts related to 
GinWui distributions exist on the Chinese NCPH and Evil Octal forums.  Wicked Rose 
associates with WHG and others on this form.  WHT hosted version "3.0beta.3" of the "NCPH 

remote control" rootkit code on May 2, 2006.  This distribution of GinWui was largely unknown 
and undetected by anti-virus companies at the time of release.   
 
Versions of GinWui used in targeted attacks of May and June 2006 are private versions, not 
released to the public.  This proves that Wicked Rose either constructed the zero day attacks or 
sold private code to users that performed the attack. 
 
Wicked Rose later documents additional updates to his rootkit code, version .50, at 
http://rodag.blogbus.com/index.html. By this time Wicked Rose was performing full-time 
development of this malicious code as a hacker for hire. 

4  June 21, 2007 – Continued US Targeted Attacks 
 
Just over a month later, following initial GinWui based targeted attacks, another Microsoft Word 
exploit occurs on June 21, 2006.  A spoofed e-mail is sent to a target containing a hostile 
Microsoft Word document.  Analysis of the attack reveals that it's likely a test file used to 
identify what version of Word may be running within the targeted organization, rather than a 
refined targeted attack upon a known version of Microsoft Word.  Chinese text within the Word 
document reveal Chinese characters discussing a systematic evaluation of offsets for Microsoft 
Word exploitation: 
 

      

 

RipGof attacks reveal a Chinese string related to systematic testing of offsets for exploitation. 

5  Backtracking Targeted Attacks: RipGof 
 
In June 2006 another targeted attack emerges, but it's not GinWui this time but a new code, 
RipGof.B.  The attack attempts to exploit MS06-027 to install RipGof.B, a Trojan horse.  This is 
the same exploit code used in the former Zero-Day attacks linked to Wicked Rose and the NCPH 
hacking group.  The exploit code is still private at this time, proving that the author of both 
GinWui and RipGof attacks are the same individual or group or affiliated through underground 
criminal operations. 

 
RipGof.B is an improvement of the former exploit used in GinWui attacks.  RipGof.B attacks 
included improvements to shellcode that attempts to fork to different locations based upon the 
address value of the stack to exploit multiple versions of Microsoft Word.  Once installed, 
RipGof.B attempts to connect to enjoy.irdet.com and enjoy.bmwsee.com over TCP port 80.  It 
runs as a rootkit and backdoor Trojan horse and phones home to a  Chinese server with stolen 
data. 
 
RipGof malicious code does not exist as a distribution in the underground, leading investigators 
to look into the original RipGof.A malicious code.  Over a year prior to the 2006 targeted attacks 
RipGof.A emerges in the wild.  RipGof.A attempted to exploit the Jet Engine Database exploit in 
March 2005.  This proves attempted exploitation and installation of code through RipGof for a 
year prior to more sophisticated codes and attacks.   
 
In summary, RipGof and GinWui attacks both use the same private exploit code against 
Microsoft Word and both install rootkit based codes to steal and send information back to 
Chinese sources.  This circumstantial evidence reveals that Wicked Rose and the NCPH group 
likely began their exploitation efforts at least a year and a half to two years prior to sophisticated 
attacks that commenced in 2006.  Once the group found a vulnerability within Microsoft Word 
they were able to improve upon it and their targeted attack techniques to distribute multiple 
targeted attacks and malicious codes for criminal gain as hackers for hire. 

6  Timeline of Events 
 
Wicked Rose and the NCPH hacking group are implicated in multiple Office based attacks over 
a two year period.  An attack in 2006 used RipGof.B in the attack.  RipGof.A first emerged a 
year earlier using an exploit that is relatively unsophisticated.  Over the next year the Evil 
Security Team, also out of China, creates the Dasher worm and uses the PcShares Trojan in an 
attack.  Wicked Rose gives a recommendation on the Trojan the day it is updated in the spring of 
2006, showing a close affiliation between Wicked Rose and the Evil Security Team actors.  
Multiple attacks that take place in May and June and later 2006 are related to privately held 
exploit code for both Microsoft Word and Excel, proven to be developed by Wicked Rose.  A 
timeline of proven associated events related to Wicked Rose attacks is below: 
 
April 22, 2005 - RipGof.A JetEngine DB Attack 
Dec. 19, 2005 – Dasher worm and PcShare Trojan attack by Evil Security Team 
April 27, 2006 Update to windowsupdates.net attack site 
April 30, 2006 - Wicked Rose Drops out of School 
May 2, 2006 – 3.0beta3 NCPH remote control (GinWui) public release 
May 12, 2006 - Initial probing and GinWui.A exploitation attempts against US target 
May 15, 2006 - PcShare Trojan update recommended by Wicked Rose on day of new release 
May 16, 2006 - Update to windowsupdates.net attack site 
May 16, 2006 - Multiple GinWui.A attacks against US target 
May 18, 2006 - SANS reports zero-day attack 
May 19, 2006 Update to windowsupdates.net attack site 
May 20, 2006 - GinWui.B Attack 
May 20, 2006 - WZT Kicked out of NCPH 
May 29, 2006 - GinWui.C Attack 
June 1, 2006 Update to windowsupdates.net attack site 
June 9, 2006 – Mdropper.F Attack 
June 14, 2006 – Daserf.A Attack 
June 15, 2006 – Mdropper.G Attack 

June 15, 2006 – Booli.A Trojan Attack 
June 16, 2006 - Flux.E Attack 
June 18, 2006 - RipGof.B Attack 
June 23, 2006 – PPDropper.A 
June 23, 2006 – Booli.B Trojan attack 
June 25, 2006 - GinWui.D Attack 
June 26, 2006 - GinWui.E Attack 
Sept. 27, 2006 – PPDropper.F Attack 
Sept. 30, 2006 – GinWui.G Attack  
Oct. 9, 2006 – Wicked Rose reports pay increase; likely in September 
 

7  A Pictorial Introduction to Wicked Rose and NCPH 
 
Just who are Wicked Rose and the NCPH hacker group?  As it turns out, a collection of college 
students in China who likely room with one another and regularly support their hacking interests.  
In-depth research implicates Wicked Rose as the ring-leader of the group, responsible for 
managing hacker for hire relationships and paying group members for their work as hackers.  
During the time of targeted attacks in 2006 their income increased significantly, to full-time 
wages for part time hacking.  Wicked Rose, leader of the group, is pictured below: 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
Wicked Rose maintains a personal site at www.mghacker.com.     
 

  玫瑰 黑客 (MeiGui HeiKe)  “Rose Hacker”     
QQ number is 5372453   www.mghacker.com          

 
 

 

 

Wicked Rose's Website: www.mghacker.com 

  
Rose is an approximate 20-year-old (2006) student at the Sichuan University of Science & 
Engineering. In the spring of 2006 Wicked Rose claims to have dropped out of school for full 
time hacking opportunities.  Specifically, on April 30, 2006 his blog entry claims he did not 
register for his university exam.  He performed significant updates to his rootkit code from 
March through June 2006.  He later returned to school by September 2006. 
 
Wicked Rose claims responsibility on his blog for targeted e-mail based attacks containing 
Microsoft Word and CHM exploits from the spring of 2006. 
 
Other NCPH-member websites include: http://rodag.blogbus.com, 
http://www.cppblog.com/charles and http://kungbim.blogbus.com.  The main NCPH website is 
www.ncph.net: 
 

 
Registration information for ncph.net reveals a Chinese registrant: 

 

NCPH Studio website www.ncph.net 

 

 

Registrant Contact: ncph studio (ncph2005@126.com) si chuan li gong xue yuan 
zigong, Sichuan, cn 643000 P: +86.13154663992 F: +86.13154663992  

  
The main location of the NCPH group is in Zigong, Sichuan Province, in south-central China.  
  

 
 

        Zigong, Sichuan Province, in south-central China 

  
  

 
 
 
The NCPH group (NCPH Studio) in Zigong, China, is shown here:  
 

 

   

 

 

NCPH hackers at work in the “ncph studio” 

Left to right:  “Wicked Rose,” KuNgBiM, Charles and Rodag 

 

 

 

Additional photos featuring Wicked Rose and NCPH hackers are below, captured from their 
various websites and blog entries in 2006.  Chinese translation for each photo are below: 
 

"Wicked Rose" 
From an ancient Chinese poem, 
expressing the devotion of his heart for 
hacking. 

 
Charles:  "Silence belongs to our 
world..."  

Ronag 
"Behind every successful design, he 
always has a slight smile…" 

"After you choose the technology you 
love, you have to research every system 
and code everyday!" 

 

 

Charles 
"Charles always laughs so brightly when 
searching for program problems!" 
 

 
KuNgBiM  
 "Only we can feel this kind of happy..." 

 

 

 

 

 

Wicked Rose and NCPH hacking photos 

 
 
WHG (“Fig”) 

 
WHG is not a core member of NCPH but a close affiliate of Wicked Rose.  WHG appears to be 
central to development of the NCPH rootkit, aka GinWui.  WHG is credited by Wicked Rose as 
one of the authors of this malicious code.  WHG is an experienced malicious code author with 
the following contact information: 
 

  E-mail address:  
  QQ Number: 
  Website: 
  Real Name: 
  Location: 

 
 
 
 

whg@163.com 
312016 
http://cnasm.com 
May be "Zhao Jibing",赵纪斌. 
Believed to be employed in the Sichuan province of China. 

 
WZT 
 
WZT is a former member of the NCPH group who was kicked out during the time of zero-day 
attacks in May 2006.  WZT was removed on May 20, 2006.  During this time period the zero-
day attacks became publicly disclosed, increasing pressure upon the hacking group.  It is feasible 
that WZT may have offended the group in some way related to zero-day attack techniques, strife 
over hacker for hire deals, or competition for hacker for hire deals. 
 
WZT is a former coding expert within the NCPH group and many years experience in hacking.  
He is responsible for creating multiple tools and regularly giving credit to the infamous Li0n 
Chinese hacker (founder of Honker Union (HUC) Chinese group.  WZT maintains a website at 
tthacker.cublog.cn. 
 
The Jiangsu Connection? 
 
 
WHOIS registrant data for related domains used within attacks and hacker sites reveals a 
connection with the Jiangsu province of China.  One domain, windowsupdates.net, is used in 
attacks and revolves to an IP address in the Sichuan province.  Meanwhile, the registrant 
"zhaofeng network" is reportedly based out of Jiangsu, not Sichuan.  Some of the WHOIS 
information clearly contains fraudulent information to presumably direct researchers away from 
the true identity and location of the attacker responsible for registering the hostile domain.  The 
connection to the Jiangsu and Sichuan provinces remains unclear. 

8  Concluding Comments 
 
Prior to Wicked Rose and NCPH hacker for hire attacks in 2006, Chinese hackers are only 
known for their patriotic hacking.  This disturbing development reveals two critical threats: 1) 
motives of Chinese hackers are changing 2) Chinese hackers are regularly associated with 
sophisticated attacks as of 2006. 
 
Wicked Rose implicates himself in his early blog entries and website posts in 2006 and prior.  
An unknown company or entity reportedly paid Wicked Rose for hacking at the rate of 2,000 
RMB a month, about $250 USD.  At this time Wicked Rose gave 200 RMB to NCPH hackers 
and kept the rest for himself.  Once targeted attacks took place the payment increased five-fold to 
5,000 RMB monthly with $1,000 a month going to NCPH hackers.  This is a significant amount 
of money in China, effectively paying hackers a full-time wage for part-time hacking. 
 

Throughout the summer of 2006, while Wicked Rose was not in school, over 35 zero-day 
attacks, proof-of-concept codes, and attacks against un-patched Microsoft Office vulnerabilities 
are discovered in the wild.  With Wicked Rose claiming responsibility for early attacks and the 
lead author of both GinWui and the NCPH hacking group, there is little doubt left as to his 
involvement in attacks to date. 
 
By the end of 2006 attacks become increasingly sophisticated.  In one instance a popular 
PowerPoint file distributed during the Christmas holiday season for the last two years prior is 
used within a socially engineered attack upon one individual within an energy sector US based 
company.  The PowerPoint file is modified to include an exploit that silently installs malicious 
code.  This same individual receives another e-mail containing a Microsoft Word exploit.  In this 
case only one individual within the company is targeted, and with just two messages socially 
engineered for maximum success.  This is a much more targeted and stealthy approach for 
attacks compared to the earlier attacks performed by the group in the late spring of 2006. 
 
NCPH continues to be a significant threat going forth for several reasons. 
 

1.  Attacks continue to take place in the wild and are very difficult to identify on a targeted 

basis.  Only the most sophisticated networks and system administrators are able to 
properly protect and capture hostile targeted attack files before an attack takes place.   
2.  NCPH is a serious dedicated hacking group that is methodical and disciplined in their 

development of new exploits and attacks. 

3.  NCPH is motivated by both the thrill and challenge of hacking and money as a motive. 
4.  Attacks by the group are highly targeted and stealthy, very difficult to detect and remove. 

