 

Russian Invasion of Georgia 

Russian Cyberwar on Georgia 

10 November, 2008 

 

Regular updates can be found on the Georgia Update website: 

www.georgiaupdate.gov.ge  

1. 

INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................................2 

2.  BACKGROUND ON CYBERWARFARE.......................................................2 

3.  RUSSIA’S ONLINE WAR ON GEORGIA: FIRST STRIKE ..............................3 

4.  CYBER BLOCKADE.........................................................................................5 

5.  SITES PROVIDING DDOS ATTACK TOOLS .................................................5 

6.  PART OF THE INFORMATION WAR .............................................................7 

7.  RUSSIAN BUSINESS NETWORK......................................................................8 

8. 

THE 27 AUGUST ATTACK...............................................................................9 

CONCLUSION......................................................................................................10 

APPENDIX: Articles About Cyberwar on Georgia .........................................11 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  INTRODUCTION  

The Russian invasion of Georgia was preceded by an intensive build up 
of cyberattacks attempting to disrupt, deface and bring down critical 
Georgian governmental and civilian online infrastructure. These attacks 
became a massive assault on the eve of the invasion which resulted in 
the  blocking,  re-routing  of  traffic  and  control  being  seized  of  various 
sections of Georgian cyberspace. The attack marks a new phase in the 
history of warfare, being the first case in which a land invasion was co-
ordinated  with  an  orchestrated  online  cyber-offensive.  This  offers 
crucial 
lessons  for  strategists  and  planners  whilst  providing  vital 
information  about  how  the  Russian  Federation  is  developing  its 
offensive capacities on the internet.  

The  campaign  has  been  reported  in  the  media,  with  wide  coverage 
suggesting  the  campaign  was  a  spontaneous  outburst  of  popular 
feeling in Russia lead by independent hackers. However, as this report 
suggests,  the  offensive  was  too  large,  coordinated,  and  sophisticated 
to  be  the  work  of  independent  hackers;  the  evidence  leads  by-and-
large  to  the  Russian  Business  Network  (RBN)  in  St.  Petersburg,  Russia.  
Whilst  only  a  criminal  investigation  can  directly  prove  the  involvement 
of  the  Kremlin,  both  experts  and  commentators  have  accused 
Moscow  of  sponsoring  the  attacks  as  their  magnitude  requires  the 
involvement of the kind of resources only a state-sponsor can provide. 

2.  BACKGROUND ON CYBERWARFARE  

Cyberattacks  are  becoming  an  increasingly  established  and  virulent 
form of warfare in the early Twenty-First Century. High technology and 
online  skills  are  now  available  for  rent  to  a  variety  of  customers, 
including  private  individuals  and  terrorist  organizations,  and  can 
potentially destabilize a country’s whole economy and crucial security 
infrastructure.  Cyberwarfare  has  found  its  primary  state-sponsor  in  the 
Russian  Federation,  which  is  widely  suspected  of  having  played  a 
leading  role  in  the  first  large  scale  cyberattack  on  a  NATO  member 
state last year. 

In  the  spring  of  2007  government  computers  in  Estonia  came  under 
sustained  attack  from  cyberterrorists  following  the  decision  taken  by 
Estonian  officials  to  move  a  statue  placed  commemorating  a  Red 
Army soldier that died fighting the Nazis, to the military cemetery in the 
capital  Tallinn.  The  event  roused  emotions  and  led  to  large  scale 
protests  by  the  Russian  minority.  It  was  then  that  the  Estonian 
Government’s  online  networks  came  under  massive  assault  using 

 

2 

 

Distributed  Denial-Of-Service  (DDoS)  assaults  on  its  infrastructure.  The 
attacks,  which  flooded  computers  and  servers,  blocking  legitimate 
users were  described  as  ‘crippling’  by  experts,  owing  to  Estonia’s  high 
dependence on information technology. Commentators have pointed 
out that the assault had very serious consequences for Estonia`s banks 
and airports.  Consequences similar in effect to a full scale missile strike. 
This  provided  vital  lessons  for  Estonia  and  NATO  and  has  led  to  the 
development of a cutting edge cyberwarfare institute in Tallinn.  

3.  RUSSIA’S ONLINE WAR ON GEORGIA: FIRST STRIKE  

In August 2008, cyberwar associated with the Russian Federation struck 
once more,  this  time against Georgia. The DDoS attacks began in  the 
weeks  running  up  to  the  outbreak  of  the  Russian  invasion  and 
continued after the Kremlin announced that it had ceased hostilities on 
12  August.  Georgian  claims  have  been  confirmed  by  Tom  Burling,  an 
executive of Tulip Systems, a U.S. Internet firm, which took over hosting 
of the web sites for Georgia's government agencies during the conflict. 
In  a  recent  interview  Burling  said  its  experts  had  worked  frantically  to 
curtail the damage from the hackers, remarking that "They have been 
attacking  Georgia  from  a  cyber  standpoint  since  July."  Some  of  the 
Western sources confirm this claim.  

On  20  July  the  Shadowserver  Foundation  published  news  about  the 
serious  attack  against  the  website  of  the  President  of  Georgia:  “For 
over  24  hours  the  website  of  President  Mikhail  Saakashvili  of  Georgia 
(www.president.gov.ge)  has  been  rendered  unavailable  due  to  a 
multi-pronged distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.” 

Computerworld, 21 July: “The Web site for the president of Georgia was 
knocked  offline  by  a  distributed  denial-of-service  (DDOS)  attack  over 
the weekend, yet another in a series of cyberattacks against countries 
experiencing political friction with Russia.” 

New  York  Times,  12  August:  “Weeks  before  bombs  started  falling  on 
Georgia,  a  security  researcher  in  suburban  Massachusetts  was  watching  an 
attack against the country in cyberspace.” 

The  Russian  invasion  of  Georgia  was  preceded  by  a  cyber  attack  on 
Georgia’s  Internet  facilities.  A  large  number  of  Georgia’s  Internet 
servers  were  seized  and  placed  under  external  control  from  late 
Thursday,  7  August,  whereas  Russia’s  invasion  of  Georgia  officially 
commenced  on  Friday,  8  August.  Also,  much  of  Georgia’s  traffic  and 
access  was  taken  under  unauthorized  external  control  at  the  same 
time that this first large scale attack occurred.  

The  defacement  of  President  Mikheil 
site 
president.gov.ge with the screen-shot provided below which operated 
as a moving slideshow was part of the initial phase of the attack. What 

Saakashvili  web 

 

3 

followed  were  large  numbers  of  DDoS  against  the  site  designed  to 
prevent  the  Georgian  government  from  getting  its  message  across  to 
the  general  population  and  international  media  during  this  critical 
time. 

 

 

Dancho  Danchev  is  an  independent  security  consultant  and  cyber 
threats  analyst,  with  extensive  experience  in  open  source  intelligence 
gathering, malware and E-crime incident response.  As an expert in the 
field, he views the defacement attacks as clearly being Kremlin linked 
and not undertaken by independent or un-coordinated attackers. 

•  “What am I trying to imply? It smells like a three letter intelligence 
agency’s  propaganda  arm  has  managed  to  somehow  supply 
the  creative  for  the  defacement  of  Georgia  President’s  official 
web site, thereby forgetting a simple rule of engagement in such 
a conflict - risk forwarding the responsibility of the attack to each 
and  every  Russian  or  Russian  supporter  that  ever  attacked 
Georgian  sites  using  publicly  obtainable  DDoS  attack  tools  in  a 
coordinated fashion.” 

An example of Russian efforts to shut the mouse of Georgian media is 
the story of the Georgian news agency GHN. The first attack against 
the agency’s website occurred in August 2008. Another wave of cyber 
attacks started on 8 September. As a result, the GHN news agency 
website had been paralyzed for 2 weeks. Another Georgian media 
website that came under consistent cyber attacks after the end of the 
armed conflict is www.apsny.ge – website of the Georgia-Online news 
agency. It is interesting to note that Russian efforts to prevent Georgian 

 

4 

 

Internet media resources from disseminating information continued 
even after the war. 

4.  CYBER BLOCKADE 

The  Russian  assault  on  Georgian  cyberspace  was  intensely  co-
ordinated and directed out of St. Petersburg, inside the territory of the 
Russian  Federation.  The  primary  orchestrator  was  the  Russian  Business 
Network  (RBN)  which  conducted  the  cyber-blockade  so  that  all 
Georgian Internet traffic was going through Russia, denying Georgia its 
internet independence. Computers in Georgia showed that an assault 
was  clearly  taking  place,  which  is  presented  here  as  evidence  of 
Russian sponsored cyber-terrorism:  

•  Two trace routes for the web site mfa.gov.ge, that of the Georgian 

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were showing: 

(a) From US - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey  

(b) From Ukraine - Ge = available & slow; not accessible, cached 
(forged page) now only via redirect through Bryansk.ru 

•  Other  Georgia  government  websites  such  as    mod.gov.ge,  the 
website  of  the    Georgian  Ministry  of  Defense  and  the  web  site 
president.gov.ge, the web site of the Georgian Presidency showed  

(c) From US - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey 

(d) From Ukraine - Ge = Blocked via TTnet Turkey 

By examining Internet routes before and after the beginning of the war, 
it  is  clear  that  they  were  altered  either  legally  or  illegally,  blocking 
traffic  in  and  out  of  Georgia.  Some  of  those  routers  are  known  to  be 
under  control  of  the  Russian  Business  Network  (RBN).  This  can  be 
demonstrated  via  a  comparison  of  route  configuration  before  and 
after the war. 

5.  SITES PROVIDING DDOS ATTACK TOOLS  

Here we can provide clear evidence of co-ordination and a full list of 
targets the cyber-terrorists had selected taken from the Russian hosted 
web  site  stopgeorgia.ru  (which  also  appears  as  stopgeorgia.info  a 
redirected  page).  This  site  provided  the  necessary  attack  tools  for  the 
cyber  assault  against  Georgia  for  hackers.  As we  can see  the  screen-
shot  shows  that  mostly  .ge  web  sites  are  listed  for  priority  attacks. 
However - also targeted for assault is the US embassy in Tbilisi. This web 
site, as seen before, is an open site to attract future FSB cyber warriors. 
The  following  evidence  below  shows  how  these  sites  can  be  traced 
back to the Russian Business Network (RBN) in ST. Petersburg and other 
cybercriminal locations.    

 

5 

 

•  The information site Stopgeorgia.ru which provided information and 
tools  for  independent  hackers  to  attack  Georgian  sites  was hosted 
by  AS36351  Softlayer  of  Plano  Texas.  This  is  a  well  known  location 
that  is  associated  with  Atrivo  and    Intercage  malware  hosting 
connectivity, which is highly disruptive to online service.  

•  The 

information  site  Stopgeorgia.info  was  hosted  by  AS28753 
NETDIRECT  in  Frankfurt,  Germany  as  well  as  in  AS12578  APOLLO 
LATTELEKOM APOLLO in Latvia. 

The  link  back  to  the  Russian  Business  Network  (RBN)  was  provided  by 
the clues left in the registration, which reads as:  

•  Sponsoring 

Registrar: 

Inc. 
Registrant:  Domain  Manager,  Protect  Details,  Inc,  Street1:  29 
Kompozitorov St., Saint Petersburg, RU, Phone:+7.8129342271 

EstDomains, 

In  summary,  36  important  web  sites  were  identified  as  targets  for 
hackers,  including  the  US  and  UK  Embassies  in  Tbilisi,  Georgian 
Parliament, Georgian Supreme Court, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, various 
news  agencies  and  other  media  resources,  the  Central  Election 
Commission, and many others. 

 

6 

 

 

 

Due  to  efforts  of  many  IT  specialists  in  Internet  hosting  routing 
companies,  normal  traffic  was  mostly  resumed  after  the  initial  strikes. 
Most critical websites were hosted outside of Georgia.  

6.  PART OF THE INFORMATION WAR 

To  help  to  make  a  final  judgment  regarding  the  cyberwar  against 
Georgia  these  two  declarations  from  Russian  officials  can  help  us  to 
evaluate  how  Moscow  thinks  in  regard  to  online  warfare.  The  Russian 
State  Duma  deputy  and  member  of  the  Security  Committee  Deputy 
Nikolai  Kuryanovich 
formal  Russian 
parliamentary  letter  of  appreciation  to  hackers  who  had  taken  down 
several Israeli web sites: 

in  2006  within  a 

stated 

• 

 

"In  the  very  near  future  many  conflicts  will  not  take  place  on  the 
open field of battle, but rather in spaces on the Internet, fought with 
the  aid  of  information  soldiers,  that  is  hackers.  This  means  that  a 

7 

 

small  force  of  hackers  is  stronger  than  the  multi-thousand  force  of 
the current armed forces."  

Should we interpret this declaration as a statement of intent, or merely 
a prediction? A few days ago,  the Editor of  the Russian Online journal 
cybersecurity.ru, made a similar statement that provides insight into the 
Russian war aims: 

•  “Cyber-attacks are part of the information war, making your enemy 

shut up is a potent weapon of modern warfare.”  

Clear examples that such thinking is being applied as guiding principles 
of Russian strategy as part of the intense information-war taking place 
can be drawn from the second wave of attacks that showed up from 
Russian Business Network (RBN) server range. This time the weapon was 
a  new  campaign  purporting  to  come  from  the  BBC  that  mocked 
Georgia's President and spread as a new virus. 

a 

single 

(IP 

The  malware  from  various  locations  caused  the  virus  to  be  delivered 
from 
79.135.167.49).  
The name of the malware is "name.avi.exe", and as of September 2008, 
only  FOUR  out  of  36  anti-virus  products  could  detect  it.  The  Russian 
Business Network (RBN) had created a highly virulent strain designed to 
act as a propaganda weapon against Georgia. 

address: 

site, 

7.  RUSSIAN BUSINESS NETWORK 

The  individual,  with  direct  responsibility  for  carrying  out  the  cyber  "first 
strike"  on  Georgia,  is  a  RBN  operative  named  Alexandr  A.  Boykov  of 
Saint Petersburg, Russia. Also involved in the attack was a programmer 
and  spammer  from  Saint  Petersburg  named  Andrey  Smirnov.  These 
men  are  leaders  of  RBN  sections  and  are  not  "script-kiddies"  or 
"hacktivists," as some have maintained of the cyber attacks on Georgia 
–  but  senior  operatives 
responsibility  with  vast 
background knowledge.  

in  positions  of 

Intelligence  can  suggest  further  information  about  these  individual 
cyber-terrorists. According to Spamhaus SBL64881, Mr. Boykov operates 
a hosting service in Class C Network 79.135.167.0/24. It should be noted 
that  the  pre-invasion  attacks  emanated  from  79.135.167.22,  clearly 
showing professional planning and not merely ‘hacktivism.’  Due to the 
degree  of  professionalism  and  the  required  massive  costs  to  run  such 
operations,  a  state-sponsor  is  suspected.  Further  information  gathered 
also links the RBN to known disruptive websites.  

•  The  IP  addresses  of  the  range,  79.135.160.0/19  are  assigned  to 
Sistemnet  Telecom  to  provide  services  to  companies  who  are 
classified  as  engaging  in  illicit  activities  such  as  credit  card  fraud, 
malware and so on. 

 

8 

 

•  79.135.160.0/19  Sistemnet  Telecom  and  AS9121  TTNet  (Turkey)  are 
associated  with  AbdAllah_Internet  which  is  linked  with  cybercrime 
hosting  such  as  thecanadianmeds.com.  These  are  known  Russian 
Business Network routes.  

 

8.  THE 27 AUGUST ATTACK 

The  last  large  cyberattack  took  place  on  27  August.  After  that,  there 
have  been  no  serious  attacks  on  Georgian  cyberspace.  By  that  is 
meant 
these  are 
indistinguishable from regular traffic and can certainly be attributed to 
regular civilians.  

that  minor  attacks  are  still  continuing  but 

On 27 August, at approximately 16:18 (GMT +3) a DDoS attack against 
the  Georgian  websites  was  launched.  The  main  target  was  the 
Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.  

The attacks peaked at approx 0,5 million network packets per second, 
and  up  to  200–250  Mbits  per  second  in  bandwidth  (see  attached 
graphs). The graphs represent a 5-minute average: actual peaks were 
higher. 
 

 

 

 

9 

 

 

 
 

CPU 

The  attacks  mainly  consisted  of  HTTP  queries  to  the  http://mfa.gov.ge 
website.  These  were  requests  for  the  main  page  script  with  randomly 
generated  parameters.  These  requests  were  generated  to  overload 
the  web  server  in  a  way  where  every  single  request  would  need 
significant 
time.  
 
The  initial  wave  of  the  attack  disrupted  services  for  some  Georgian 
websites. The services became slow and unresponsive. This was due to 
the 
requests. 
 
As  you  see  from  the  graphs  above  the  attacks  started  to  wind  down 
after most of the attackers were successfully blocked. The latest attack 
may have been initiated as a response to the media coverage on the 
Russian cyber attacks.  

servers 

these 

load 

on 

the 

by 

 

CONCLUSION  

The information presented in here catalogues and explains the historic 
first major use of cyberattacks as a weapon  of war during the Russian 
aggression against Georgia. Considering that this is the second Russian-
sponsored cyber-attack in just over a year, as well as the alarming fact 
that  the  US  Embassy  in  Tbilisi  was  listed  for  assault  by  cyberterrorists, 
NATO member states as well as NATO aspirant countries need to be on 
full  alert 
future  Russian  aggression  against  critical  online 
for 
infrastructure.   

 

 

 

 

 

10 

APPENDIX: Articles About Cyberwar on Georgia 

 

 

 

Contents 

SHADOWSERVER............................................................................................................. 11 

COMPUTERWORLD ........................................................................................................ 13 

COMPUTERWORLD ........................................................................................................ 14 

SOFT SECURITY ................................................................................................................ 15 

THE TELEGRAPH ............................................................................................................. 15 

NEW YORK TIMES ........................................................................................................... 17 

AFP....................................................................................................................................... 19 

INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP................................................................................ 20 

THE TELEGRAPH ............................................................................................................. 22 

WASHINGTON POST ...................................................................................................... 23 

NEWSWEEK....................................................................................................................... 26 

AFP....................................................................................................................................... 28 

WASHINGTON POST (blog)............................................................................................29 

 

 

 

 

 

SHADOWSERVER 

20 July 2008; Updated on 10 August 2008 

The Website for the President of Georgia Under Attack - Politically Motivated? 

 

For over 24 hours the website of President Mikhail Saakashvili of Georgia 
(www.president.gov.ge) has been rendered unavailable due to a multi-

 

11 

 

pronged distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. The site began coming 
under attack very early Saturday morning (Georgian time). Shadowserver has 
observed at least one web-based command and control (C&C) server taking 
aim at the website hitting it with a variety of simultaneous attacks. The C&C 
server has instructed its bots to attack the website with TCP, ICMP, and HTTP 
floods.  

Commands seen so far are:  

 
 
 

flood http www.president.gov.ge/  
flood tcp www.president.gov.ge 
flood icmp www.president.gov.ge  

The server [62.168.168.9] which houses the website has been largely offline 
since the attack started. Passive DNS records show the system houses several 
other websites which are mostly unrelated to the Georgian government. 
However, the server does also host the Social Assistance and Employment 
State Agency website (www.saesa.gov.ge). This website along with the others 
on the host have been rendered inaccessible.  

Is the attack political or perhaps nationalistic in nature? Your guess is as good 
as ours but it doesn't take much to come to this possible conclusion. Recent 
DDoS attacks against various other neighbors of Russia to include Estonia 
have been quite popular in the last few years. We do not have any solid 
proof that the people behind this C&C server are Russian. However, the HTTP-
based botnet C&C server is a MachBot controller, which is a tool that is 
frequently used by Russian bot herders. On top of that the domain involved 
with this C&C server has seemingly bogus registration information but does tie 
back to Russia.  

Who else have these guys been attacking with this MachBot C&C server? The 
answer is no one. This server recently came online in the past few weeks and 
has not issued any other attacks that we have observed until recently. All 
attacks we have observed have been directed right at 
www.president.gov.ge.  

The C&C server involved in these attacks is on the IP address 207.10.234.244, 
which is subsequently located in the United States. Beaconing traffic from 
your network to this host may indicate that you have infected machines on 
your network and are most likely participating in this DDoS attack. We would 
recommend blocking and/or monitoring for traffic to this address.  

Update (7/20/2008: 1:36 PM EST): It appears the host site for 207.10.234.244 has 
taken action against this system and appears to now be blocking access to it. 
However, the server being targeted by the C&C is still unreachable.  

Update (8/10/2008: 10:34 AM EDT): With the recent events in Georgia, we are 
now seeing new attacks against .ge sites. www.parliament.ge & 
president.gov.ge are currently being hit with http floods. In this case, the C&C 
server involved is at IP address 79.135.167.22 which is located in Turkey. We 
are also observing this C&C as directing attacks against www.skandaly.ru. 

 

12 

Traffic from your network to this IP or domain name of 
googlecomaolcomyahoocomaboutcom.net may indicate compromise and 
participation in these attacks. 

 

COMPUTERWORLD 

21 July 2008 

By Jeremy Kirk 

Georgia president's Web site falls under DDOS attack 

Botnet took down site for one day 

The Web site for the president of Georgia was knocked offline by a distributed 
denial-of-service (DDOS) attack over the weekend, yet another in a series of 
cyberattacks against countries experiencing political friction with Russia. 

Georgia's presidential Web site was down for about a day, starting early 
Saturday until Sunday, according to the Shadowserver Foundation, which 
tracks malicious Internet activity. 

Network experts said the attack was executed by a botnet, or a network of 
computers that can be commanded to overwhelm a Web site with too much 
traffic. 

The command-and-control server for the attack is based in the U.S., 
Shadowserver said. The botnet appears to be based on the "MachBot" code, 
which communicates to other compromised PCs over HTTP, the same 
protocol used for transmitting Web pages. 

The tool used to control this kind of botnet "is frequently used by Russian bot 
herders," according to Shadowserver. "On top of that, the domain involved 
with this [command-and-control] server has seemingly bogus registration 
information but does tie back to Russia."  

One of the commands contained in the traffic directed at the Web site 
contained the phrase "win+love+in+Rusia," wrote Jose Nazario, a senior 
security engineer at Arbor Networks, on a company blog. 

On Sunday, it appeared that the host for the command-and-control server 
had been taken offline, Shadowserver said. 

The motivation for the attacks is not entirely clear. But Georgia is just one of 
several former Soviet satellites, including Estonia and Lithuania, that are 
seeking to downplay their historical legacy with Russia. 

Georgia has angered Russia by pushing for entry to NATO, a pro-Western 
security alliance. It has also tangled with Russia over the handling of South 
Ossetia and Abkhazia, two rebellious regions pushing for independence. 

 

13 

 

In Lithuania, 300 Web sites were defaced around July 1 following a new law 
prohibiting the public display of symbols dating from the Soviet era and the 
playing of the Soviet national anthem. The hacking was blamed on an 
unpatched vulnerability in a Web server at a hosting company. 

Estonian Web sites were pounded by a massive DDOS attack in April and May 
2007. The attacks are believed to have been connected to a decision to 
move a monument honoring Soviet World War II soldiers to a less prominent 
place, which ignited protests from ethnic Russians. 

COMPUTERWORLD 

11 August 2008 

By Gregg Keizer 

Cyberattacks knock out Georgia's Internet presence 

Large-scale attacks, traffic rerouting traced to Russian hacker hosting network 

August 11, 2008 (Computerworld) Hackers, perhaps affiliated with a well-
known Russian criminal network, have attacked and hijacked Web sites 
belonging to Georgia, the former Soviet republic now in the fourth day of war 
with Russia, a security researcher claimed on Sunday. 

Some Georgian government and commercial sites are unavailable, while 
others may have been hijacked, said Jart Armin, a researcher who tracks the 
notorious Russian Business Network (RBN), a malware and criminal hosting 
network.  

"Many of Georgia's Internet servers were under external control from late 
Thursday," Armin said early Saturday in an entry on his Web site. According to 
his research, the government's sites dedicated to the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, the Ministry of Defense, and the country's president, Mikhail 
Saakashvili, have been blocked completely, or traffic to and from those sites' 
servers have been redirected to servers actually located in Russia and Turkey.  

As of midnight Eastern time on Sunday, Georgia's presidential and defense 
ministry sites were unavailable from the U.S. Although the foreign ministry's site 
remained online, the most recent news item was dated Aug. 8, the day 
Georgian and Russian forces first clashed.  

Armin warned that Georgian sites that appeared online may actually be 
bogus. "Use caution with any Web sites that appear of a Georgia official 
source but are without any recent news [such as those dated Saturday, Aug. 
9, or Sunday, Aug. 10], as these may be fraudulent," he said in another entry 
posted midafternoon on Sunday.  

Statements from Georgia's foreign ministry have appeared in a blog hosted 
on Google, perhaps in an attempt to circumvent attacks.  

 

14 

 

Researchers at the Shadowserver Foundation, which tracks malicious Internet 
activity, confirmed some of Armin's claims. "We are now seeing new attacks 
against .ge sites [Editor's note: .ge is the top-level domain for Georgia.] ... 
www.parliament.ge and president.gov.ge are currently being hit with HTTP 
floods," the researchers said in a Sunday update to a July post.  

On Saturday, Armin reported that key sections of Georgia's Internet traffic 
had been rerouted through servers based in Russia and Turkey, where the 
traffic was either blocked or diverted. The Russian and Turkish servers Armin 
identified, he said, "are well known to be under the control of RBN and 
influenced by the Russian government."  

RBN, which pulled up stakes last year and shifted network operations to China 
in an attempt to avoid scrutiny, has been fingered for a wide range of 
criminal activities, including a massive subversion of Web sites last March.  

Later on Saturday, Armin added that network administrators in Germany had 
been able to temporarily reroute some Georgian Internet traffic directly to 
servers run by Deutsche Telekom AG. Within hours, however, the traffic had 
been again diverted to Russian servers, this time to ones based in Moscow.  

The attacks are reminiscent of other coordinated campaigns against Estonian 
government Web sites in April and May 2007 and against about 300 
Lithuanian sites on July 1. Like Georgia, both countries are former republics in 
the Soviet Union.  

Three weeks ago, a distributed denial-of-service attack knocked Georgia's 
presidential site offline for about a day.  

Late Sunday, Russian ground forces were reported advancing toward Gori, 
an important transportation hub in central Georgia. 

SOFT SECURITY 

11 August 2008 

This day highlights  

Coordinated Russia vs Georgia cyber attack in progress (extract) 

 

In the wake of Russian-Georgian conflict, a week worth of speculations 
around Russian Internet forums have finally materialized into a coordinated 
cyber attack against Georgia’s Internet infrastructure, whose tactics have 
already managed to compromise several government web sites and is 
continuing to launch DDoS attacks against numerous other Georgian 
government sites… 

THE TELEGRAPH 

August 11 2008 

 

15 

 

By Jon Swaine 

Georgia: Russia 'conducting cyber war' 

Several Georgian state computer servers have been under external control 
since shortly before Russia's armed intervention into the state commenced on 
Friday, leaving its online presence in disarray.  

While the official website of Mikheil Saakashvili, the Georgian President, has 
become available again, the central government site, as well as the 
homepages for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence, 
remained down. Some commercial websites have also been hijacked.  

The Georgian Government said that the disruption was caused by attacks 
carried out by Russia as part of the ongoing conflict between the two states 
over the Georgian province of South Ossetia.  

In a statement released via a replacement website built on Google's blog-
hosting service, the Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said: "A cyber warfare 
campaign by Russia is seriously disrupting many Georgian websites, including 
that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs."  

Barack Obama, the Democratic US Presidential candidate, has demanded 
Moscow halt the internet attacks as well as observing a ceasefire on the 
ground.  

Last April the computer systems of the Estonian Government came under 
attack in a coordinated three-week assault widely credited to state-
sponsored Russian hackers. The wave of attacks came after a row erupted 
over the removal of the Bronze Soldier Soviet war memorial in Tallinn, the 
Estonian capital. The websites of government departments, political parties, 
banks and newspapers were all targeted.  

Analysts have immediately accused the Russian Business Network (RBN), a 
network of criminal hackers with close links to the Russian mafia and 
government, of the Georgian attacks.  

Jart Armin, a researcher who runs a website tracking the activity of the RBN, 
has released data claiming to show that visits to Georgian sites had been re-
routed through servers in Russia and Turkey, where the traffic was blocked. 
Armin said the servers "are well known to be under the control of RBN and 
influenced by the Russian Government."  

Mr Armin said that administrators in Germany had intervened at the 
weekend, temporarily making the Georgian sites available by re-routing their 
traffic through German servers run by Deutsche Telekom. Within hours, 
however, control over the traffic had been wrested back, this time to servers 
based in Moscow.  

As in the barrage against Estonian websites last year, the Georgian sites are 
being bombarded by a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, in which 

 

16 

 

hackers direct their computers to simultaneously flood a site with thousands of 
visits in order to overload it and bring it offline.  

The Shadowserver Foundation, which tracks serious hacking, confirmed: "We 
are now seeing new attacks against .ge sites - www.parliament.ge and 
president.gov.ge are currently being hit with http floods."  

Mr Armin warned that official Georgian sites that did appear online may have 
been hijacked and be displaying bogus content. He said in a post on his site: 
"Use caution with any web sites that appear of a Georgia official source but 
are without any recent news ... as these may be fraudulent."  

The Baltic Business News website reported that Estonia has offered to 
send a specialist online security team to Georgia 

However a spokesman from Estonia's Development Centre of State 
Information Systems said Georgia had not made a formal request. "This 
will be decided by the government," he said 

NEW YORK TIMES 

12 August 2008 

By John Markoff 

Before the Gunfire, Cyberattacks  

 

Weeks before bombs started falling on Georgia, a security researcher in 
suburban Massachusetts was watching an attack against the country in 
cyberspace. 

 

Jose Nazario of Arbor Networks in Lexington noticed a stream of data 
directed at Georgian government sites containing the message: 
“win+love+in+Rusia.” 

Other Internet experts in the United States said the attacks against Georgia’s 
Internet infrastructure began as early as July 20, with coordinated barrages of 
millions of requests — known as distributed denial of service, or D.D.O.S., 
attacks — that overloaded and effectively shut down Georgian servers. 

Researchers at Shadowserver, a volunteer group that tracks malicious 
network activity, reported that the Web site of the Georgian president, Mikheil 
Saakashvili, had been rendered inoperable for 24 hours by multiple D.D.O.S. 
attacks. They said the command and control server that directed the attack 
was based in the United States and had come online several weeks before it 
began the assault.  

 

17 

 

As it turns out, the July attack may have been a dress rehearsal for an all-out 
cyberwar once the shooting started between Georgia and Russia. According 
to Internet technical experts, it was the first time a known cyberattack had 
coincided with a shooting war.  

But it will likely not be the last, said Bill Woodcock, the research director of the 
Packet Clearing House, a nonprofit organization that tracks Internet traffic. He 
said cyberattacks are so inexpensive and easy to mount, with few fingerprints, 
they will almost certainly remain a feature of modern warfare.  

“It costs about 4 cents per machine,” Mr. Woodcock said. “You could fund 
an entire cyberwarfare campaign for the cost of replacing a tank tread, so 
you would be foolish not to.” 

Exactly who was behind the cyberattack is not known. The Georgian 
government blamed Russia for the attacks, but the Russian government said it 
was not involved. In the end, Georgia, with a population of just 4.6 million and 
a relative latecomer to the Internet, saw little effect beyond inaccessibility to 
many of its government Web sites, which limited the government’s ability to 
spread its message online and to connect with sympathizers around the world 
during the fighting with Russia. 

It ranks 74th out of 234 nations in terms of Internet addresses, behind Nigeria, 
Bangladesh, Bolivia and El Salvador, according to Renesys, a Manchester, 
N.H., firm that provides performance data on the state of Internet. 
Cyberattacks have far less impact on such a country than they might on a 
more Internet-dependent nation, like Israel, Estonia or the United States, 
where vital services like transportation, power and banking are tied to the 
Internet. 

In Georgia, media, communications and transportation companies were also 
attacked, according to security researchers. Shadowserver saw the attack 
against Georgia spread to computers throughout the government after 
Russian troops entered the Georgian province of South Ossetia. The National 
Bank of Georgia’s Web site was defaced at one point. Images of 20th-
century dictators as well as an image of Georgia’s president, Mr. Saakashvili, 
were placed on the site. “Could this somehow be indirect Russian action? 
Yes, but considering Russia is past playing nice and uses real bombs, they 
could have attacked more strategic targets or eliminated the infrastructure 
kinetically,” said Gadi Evron, an Israeli network security expert. “The nature of 
what’s going on isn’t clear,” he said. 

The phrase “a wilderness of mirrors” usually describes the murky world 
surrounding opposing intelligence agencies. It also neatly summarizes the 
array of conflicting facts and accusations encompassing the cyberwar now 
taking place in tandem with the Russian fighting in Georgia. 

In addition to D.D.O.S. attacks that crippled Georgia’s limited Internet 
infrastructure, researchers said there was evidence of redirection of Internet 
traffic through Russian telecommunications firms beginning last weekend. The 
attacks continued on Tuesday, controlled by software programs that were 

 

18 

 

located in hosting centers controlled by a Russian telecommunications firms. 
A Russian-language Web site, stopgeorgia.ru, also continued to operate and 
offer software for download used for D.D.O.S. attacks.  

Over the weekend a number of American computer security researchers 
tracking malicious programs known as botnets, which were blasting streams 
of useless data at Georgian computers, said they saw clear evidence of a 
shadowy St. Petersburg-based criminal gang known as the Russian Business 
Network, or R.B.N.  

“The attackers are using the same tools and the same attack commands that 
have been used by the R.B.N. and in some cases the attacks are being 
launched from computers they are known to control,” said Don Jackson, 
director of threat intelligence for SecureWorks, a computer security firm 
based in Atlanta. 

He noted that in the run-up to the start of the war over the weekend, 
computer researchers had watched as botnets were “staged” in preparation 
for the attack, and then activated shortly before Russian air strikes began on 
Saturday. 

The evidence on R.B.N. and whether it is controlled by, or coordinating with 
the Russian government remains unclear. The group has been linked to online 
criminal activities including child pornography, malware, identity theft, 
phishing and spam. Other computer researchers said that R.B.N.’s role is 
ambiguous at best. “We are simply seeing the attacks coming from known 
hosting services,” said Paul Ferguson, an advanced threat researcher at 
Trend Micro, an Internet security company based in Cupertino, Calif. A 
Russian government spokesman said that it was possible that individuals in 
Russia or elsewhere had taken it upon themselves to start the attacks. 

“I cannot exclude this possibility,” Yevgeniy Khorishko, a spokesman for the 
Russian Embassy in Washington, said. “There are people who don’t agree with 
something and they try to express themselves. You have people like this in 
your country.” 

“Jumping to conclusions is premature,” said Mr. Evron, who founded the 
Israeli Computer Emergency Response Team.  

 

AFP 

13 August 2008 

By Glenn Chapman 

Georgia targeted in cyber attack 

 

 

19 

 

Georgian government websites have been under intense cyber attack on 
top of the Russian military strikes launched against the country late last week, 
a US Internet firm said Tuesday. 

Tulip Systems Inc said they took over hosting of the websites for Georgia's 
presidency and a major television network on Saturday, a day after Russian 
forces poured into Georgia in response to Tbilisi's attacks on a Moscow-
backed rebel province. 

Tulip executive Tom Burling said the distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) 
attacks began in the weeks running up to the outbreak of the Russia-Georgia 
conflict and continued Tuesday after the Kremlin announced it had ceased 
hostilities in the former Soviet state. 

"They have been attacking Georgia from a cyber standpoint since July," 
Burling told AFP. "They are still doing it now." 

"Our poor technician here has gotten three hours sleep in the past four days," 
he said. 

Burling suggested that Russia was behind the attacks, which are similar to a 
cyber offensive waged against Estonia last year that coincided with a 
diplomatic spat between the Baltic state and Moscow. 

DDoS attacks consist of overloading websites with so many online requests 
that systems crash. 

Burling said Georgian government websites were being slammed with 
hundreds of millions of simultaneous requests for documents when Tulip gave 
them refuge, Burling said. 

"The cyber attack was taking down every Georgian government website," he 
said. 

On Tuesday, the Georgian sites hosted on Tulip were still reportedly getting hit 
with 68,000 requests at a time. 

Russia has denied involvement in cyber assaults on Georgia and experts say it 
is difficult to determine exactly who is behind such attacks. 

"The Georgian government's websites have obviously been under attack," 
said Gadi Evron, an Israeli computer security specialist that investigated the 
cyber assault on Estonia. 

"It is simply too early and we lack enough information to reach any 
conclusion as to the motive and identity of the attackers," he said. 

Evron said that such cyber warfare has become commonplace in the past 
decade. 

 

20 

 

"These types of attack are only natural and happen immediately following 
any conflict or political tension," Evron told AFP in an email. 

DDoS attacks are simple, economical and hard to trace. 

The assaults are typically done by using networks of computers that have 
been turned into "zombies" or "bots" with malicious software planted by 
hackers without the owners of machines being aware. 

"Botnets" can grow to thousands or millions of machines and be commanded 
to simultaneously make requests at targeted websites. 

Andre DiMino, director of Shadowserver, a nonprofit Internet security 
watchdog with team members around the world, warned against jumping to 
the conclusion that Russia's government is the culprit in the Georgia cyber 
attacks. 

"This actually looks more like grass roots hacktivist types -- people that jumped 
on the bandwagon," DiMino said, using Internet jargon referring to political 
activists that resort to online evil-doing. 

Tulip's Burling said the trend of such cyber maliciousness was a cause for 
concern. 

"It's like the Olympics. We are supposed to be above politics in the Internet 
community." 

Georgian forces attacked the Moscow-backed rebel province of South 
Ossetia to regain control of the region which broke away from Tbilisi in the 
early 1990s. 

Russian troops and tanks poured into Georgia on Friday after the Georgian 
offensive. 

INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP 

13 August 2008 

By Jeremy Kirk 

Estonia, Poland help Georgia fight cyber attacks 

In an intriguing cyber alliance, two Estonian computer experts are scheduled 
to arrive in Georgia by evening to keep the country's networks running amid 
an intense military confrontation with Russia. 

And Poland has lent space on its president's Web page for Georgia to post 
updates on its ongoing conflict with Russia, which launched a military 
campaign on Friday to eject Georgian troops from South Ossetia and 
Abkhazia, two renegade areas with strong ties to Russia. 

 

21 

 

The cooperation between the former Iron Curtain allies is aimed at blunting 
pro-Russian computer hackers, who have been blamed over the last few 
years for cyber attacks against Estonia, Lithuania and Georgia in incidents 
linked to political friction between those nations and Russia. 

Two of the four experts that staff Estonia's Computer Emergency Response 
Team (CERT) were waiting Tuesday morning in Yerevan, the capital of 
Armenia, seeking permission to drive into Georgia, said Katrin Pärgmäe, 
communication manager for the Estonian Informatics Center. The two officials 
are also bringing humanitarian aid, she said. 

Estonia is also now hosting Georgia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs Web site, which 
has been under sustained attack over the last few days. 

"Let's just say we moved it," Pärgmäe said. "I know that there are interested 
parties who read media so it's not good to say exactly where the hosting is." 

The Web site for Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, remained up on 
Tuesday morning. That site was knocked offline around mid-July after a DDOS 
attack from a botnet, network experts said. 

The botnet was based on the "MachBot" code, which communicates to other 
compromised PCs over the HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), the same 
protocol used for transmitting Web pages. MachBot code has been known to 
be used by Russian bot herders, according to the Shadowserver Foundation, 
which tracks malicious Internet activity. 

Shadowserver said Monday that hackers had at one point defaced the Web 
site for Georgia's parliament. "The attackers have inserted a large image 
made up of several smaller side-by-side images of pictures of both the 
Georgian President and Adolf Hitler," the group wrote. 

Georgia is now also hosting some sites in the U.S., a logical move to better 
defend the sites against attacks, Pärgmäe said. Shadowserver wrote that the 
presidential site appeared to have been moved to an IP (Internet protocol) 
address belonging to Tulip Systems, an ISP in Atlanta, Georgia. 

The country is also looking to other ways to keep information flowing. A 
Georgian news site was also up, but the site warned it was under "permanent 
DDOS attack" That Web site has set up a group in Google's Groups service, 
where subscribers can get the news stories it regularly posts. 

Georgia's banking sites also suffered attacks that caused them to shut down 
their online systems, said David Tabatadze, a security officer with the Georgia 
Research and Educational Networking Association and Georgia's CERT. Some 
of those systems are still down, he said. 

Tabatadze said that the majority of Georgia's Internet traffic is routed through 
Turkey, with some of it going through Russia. Although some news reports 
indicated Georgia's Internet traffic may have been shifted through Russia, 
Tabatadze said that's not the case. 

 

22 

 

"We have checked the traffic route on Ripe.net...and we did not see any 
traffic re-routing via Russia," Tabatadze said. 

It appears that large groups of hackers are working together to take down 
the Web sites, but the attacks have been so intense that it will take a while to 
analyze, Tabatadze said. 

Other CERTs around the world have been helping to provide information on 
the attacks, Tabatadze said. 

The last few days have been a nerve-racking time for Georgians, said 
Tabatadze, who said he heard explosions on Sunday when Russian planes 
bombed air-traffic control stations near Tbilisi, Georgia's capital. 

"You can't even imagine the situation," Tabatadze said. "This is a terrible end 
for Georgia." 

On Tuesday morning, Russia announced it would stop military operations in 
South Ossetia and Abkhazia, saying the safety of its peacekeepers in the 
region had been secured. 

THE TELEGRAPH 

13 August 2008 

By John Swaine 

Russia continues cyber war on Georgia 

Their assault, which began before the commencement of the five-day 
Russian military offensive, has again crashed the official website of the central 
government and has been widened to include a US company which 
stepped in to rescue the website of Mikheil Saakashvili, the Georgian 
President.  

Tom Burling, from Tulip Systems, which began hosting the President's site on its 
servers in Atlanta after it was brought down by the hackers, said his company 
had become the latest target of a flood of bogus traffic sent from Russia to 
crash the sites. He said the malicious visits were outnumbering legitimate ones 
5000 to 1.  

Mr Burling, who has reported the attacks to the FBI, said his company was 
working around the clock to combat the hackers. "Our people aren't getting 
any sleep," he said.  

The President's website is currently accessible, as are the sites of the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence, which were also brought down in the 
initial wave of attacks. At one stage, photographs comparing Mr Saaskashvili 
with Adolf Hitler were posted on the Foreign Ministry's site. The website of the 
National Bank of Georgia has also been compromised.  

 

23 

 

The Russian hackers are launching waves of distributed denial-of-service 
(DDoS) attacks on the websites. This means their computers, and the 
computers of unsuspecting people whose home systems they have hacked 
and enlisted for their "botnet", or swarm of zombie computers, are directed to 
simultaneously flood a chosen site with thousands of visits in order to overload 
it and bring it offline.  

Last April the computer systems of the Estonian Government came under 
attack in a co-ordinated three-week assault that was widely credited to 
state-sponsored Russian hackers.  

The Georgian Government said that the present disruption was being caused 
by attacks carried out by Russia as part of the conflict between the two 
states, which was triggered last week over Georgia's attempt to reassert 
authority over its northern rebel province of South Ossetia.  

In a statement, the Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said: "A cyber warfare 
campaign by Russia is seriously disrupting many Georgian websites, including 
that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs."  

Analysts immediately laid the blame for the attacks on Georgian sites with the 
Russian Business Network (RBN), a gang of criminal hackers which has close 
links to the Russian mafia and government.  

Jart Armin, a researcher who tracks RBN activity, said visitors to the Georgian 
sites had been re-routed through servers in Russia and Turkey, which were 
"well known to be under the control of RBN and influenced by the Russian 
Government."  

Greg Day, a security analyst at McAfee, said increasingly hacking will be a 
matter of national security.  

"We can expect to see cyber attacks being increasingly used as a weapon. 
The benefits of using such methods are that no one is directly physically hurt 
or killed and it is much harder to pinpoint the source and who is involved," he 
told Sky News.  

The hackers have also been targeting the website of Garry Kasparov, the 
Russian opposition figure and former chess champion.  

WASHINGTON POST 

27 August 2008 

By Kim Hart 

A New Breed Of Hackers Tracks Online Acts of War 

'Hacktivists' Update Their Mission 

TORONTO -- Here in the Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto, a new breed 
of hackers is conducting digital espionage. 

 

24 

 

They are among a growing number of investigators who monitor how traffic is 
routed through countries, where Web sites are blocked and why it's all 
happening. Now they are turning their scrutiny to a new weapon of 
international warfare: cyber attacks. 

Tracking wars isn't what many of the researchers, who call themselves 
"hacktivists," set out to do. Many began intending to help residents in 
countries that censor online content. But as the Internet has evolved, so has 
their mission. 

Ronald J. Deibert, director of the Citizen Lab, calls the organization a "global 
civil society counterintelligence agency" and refers to the lab as the "NSA of 
operations." 

Their efforts have ramped up in the past year as researchers gather evidence 
that Internet assaults are playing a larger role in military strategy and political 
struggles. Even before Georgia and Russia entered a ground war earlier this 
month, Citizen Lab's researchers noticed sporadic attacks aimed at several 
Georgian Web sites. Such attacks are especially threatening to countries that 
increasingly link critical activities such as banking and transportation to the 
Internet. 

Once the fighting began, massive raids on Georgia's Internet infrastructure 
were deployed using techniques similar to those used by Russian criminal 
organizations. Then, attacks seemed to come from individuals who found 
online instructions for launching their own assaults, shutting down much of 
Georgia's communication system. 

Two weeks later, researchers are still trying to trace the origins of the attacks. 
"These attacks in effect had the same effect that a military attack would 
have," said Rafal Rohozinski, who co-founded the Information Warfare 
Monitor, which tracks cyber attacks, with Citizen Lab in 2003. "That suddenly 
means that in cyberspace anyone can build an A-bomb." 

The cyber attacks that disabled many Georgian and Russian Web sites earlier 
this month marked the first time such an assault coincided with physical 
fighting. And the digital battlefield will likely become a permanent front in 
modern warfare, Deibert said. 

Seven years ago, Deibert opened the Citizen Lab using grant money from the 
Ford Foundation. Soon after, he and Rohozinski helped begin the OpenNet 
Initiative, a collaboration with Harvard's Law School, Cambridge and Oxford 
universities that tracks patterns of Internet censorship in countries that use 
filters, such as China. The project received an additional $3 million from the 
MacArthur Foundation. Deibert and Rohozinski also launched the Information 
Warfare Monitor to investigate how the Internet is used by state military and 
political operations. And Citizen Lab researchers have created a software 
tool called Psiphon that helps users bypass Internet filters. 

The combined projects have about 100 researchers in more than 70 countries 
mapping Web traffic and testing access to thousands of sites. 

 

25 

 

A number of companies specialize in cyber security, and several nonprofit 
organizations have formed cyber-surveillance projects to keep international 
vigil over the Web. Shadowserver.org, for example, is a group of 10 volunteer 
researchers who post their findings about cyber attacks online. 

The small Toronto office of Citizen Lab, tucked in a basement of the 
university's Munk Centre for International Studies, serves as the technological 
backbone for the operations. World maps and newspaper clips cover the 
walls. Researchers move between multiple computer screens, studying lists of 
codes with results from field tests in Uzbekistan, Cambodia, Iran and 
Venezuela, to name a few. 

"We rely on local experts to help us find out why a particular site is being 
blocked," Deibert said. It could be a problem with the Internet service 
provider, a temporary connection glitch or a downed server. "But what's more 
effective is blasting a site into oblivion when it is strategically important. It's 
becoming a real arms race." 

He's referring to "denial of service" attacks, in which hundreds of computers in 
a network, or "botnets," simultaneously bombard a Web site with millions of 
requests, overwhelming and crashing the server. In Georgia, such attacks 
were strong enough to knock key sources of news and information offline for 
days. 

Georgian Internet service providers also limited access to Russian news media 
outlets, cutting off the only remaining updates about the war. On the night of 
Aug. 12 -- the height of the fighting -- "there was panic in Tbilisi brought about 
by a vacuum of information," Rohozinski said. 

Shadowserver saw the first denial of service attack against Georgia's 
presidential Web site July 20. When the fighting began, Andre M. Di Mino, 
Shadowserver's founder, counted at least six botnets launching attacks, but it 
was "difficult to tell if it was a grass-roots effort or one commissioned by the 
government." 

The organization detects between 30 and 50 denial of service attacks every 
day around the world, and Di Mino said they have become more 
sophisticated over the past two years. 

"It really went from almost a kiddie type of thing to where it's an organized 
enterprise," he said. But he's hesitant to label this month's attacks as a form of 
cyberwar, although he expects networks to play an expanded role in political 
clashes. 

Jose Nazario, a security researcher with Arbor Networks, said cyber attacks 
used to target a computer's operating system. But he's seen a "tremendous 
rise" in attacks on Web browsers, allowing attackers access to much more 
personal information, such as which sites a person visits frequently. An 
attacker then could learn which servers to target in order to disrupt 
communication. 

 

26 

 

It's unclear who is behind the attacks, however. In some cases, the locations 
of botnet controllers can be traced, but it's impossible to know whether an 
attacker is working on the behalf of another organization or government. "It's 
going to take a year to figure this out," Nazario said. 

The data trail often goes cold when it crosses borders because there is little 
legal framework for such investigations. And many countries, along with the 
United Nations and other international bodies, are still weighing whether a 
cyber attack is an act of war. 

"If a state brings down the Internet intentionally, another state could very well 
consider that a hostile act," said Jonathan Zittrain, co-founder of Harvard's 
Berkman Center for Internet Society, and a principal investigator for the 
OpenNet Initiative. 

There are also strategic reasons not to disrupt networks in order to monitor the 
enemy's conversations or to spread misinformation. 

"That's an amazing intelligence opportunity," he said. 

Using the Internet to control information can be more important than 
disrupting the networks when it comes to military strategy, Rohozinski said. In 
Georgia, for example, the lack of access to both Georgian and Russian 
sources of information kept citizens in the dark while the fighting continued. 

"Sometimes the objective is not to knock out the infrastructure but to 
undermine the will of the people you're fighting against," he said. "It's about 
the nuts and bolts, but it's also about how perceptions can be shaped 
through what's available and what's not." 

NEWSWEEK 

1 September 2008 

By Trevis Wentworth 

You’ve Got Malice 

Russian nationalists waged a cyber war against Georgia. Fighting back is 
virtually impossible. 

On July 20, weeks before Russia stunned Georgia with a rapid invasion, the 
cyber attack was already under way. While Moscow baited Georgia with 
troop movements on the borders of the breakaway provinces of Abkhazia 
and South Ossetia, the "zombie" computers were already on the attack. 
Russian viruses had seized hundreds of thousands of computers around the 
world, directing them to barrage Georgian Web sites, including the pages of 
the president, the parliament, the foreign ministry, news agencies and banks, 
which shut down their servers at the first sign of attack to pre-empt identity 
theft. At one point the parliament's Web site was replaced by images 
comparing Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili to Adolf Hitler. This was not 

 

27 

 

the first Russian cyber assault—that came against Estonia, in April of 2007—but 
it was the first time an Internet attack paralleled one on land. 

The labyrinthine ways of the Web and the complicated interfaces between 
the Russian government's clandestine services and organized crime make it 
impossible, at this point, to say with certainty who was responsible, or how far 
up the chain of command it went. The Russian military certainly had the 
means to attack Georgia's Internet infrastructure, says Jonathan Zittrain, 
cofounder of Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society. Moreover, 
the attacks were too successful to have materialized independent of one 
another. Bill Woodcock, the research director at Packet Clearing House, a 
California-based nonprofit group that tracks Internet security trends, says the 
attacks bear the markings of a "trained and centrally coordinated cadre of 
professionals." 

But who? Jart Armin, who has tracked Russian cybercrime, points to the 
possibility that a role was played by the notorious Russian Business Network, a 
cybermafia that specializes in identity theft, child pornography, extortion and 
other dark and lucrative Internet crimes. The RBN's political agenda is vague 
or nonexistent, but it often contracts out its services, and Armin says there is 
increasing evidence that it is connected to, or at least tolerated by, the 
Kremlin. 

Indeed the timing is such that it's hard to discount some sort of Kremlin 
coordination, even if it's impossible to prove, and Woodcock argues that such 
cyber assaults have become a tool of Russian political leadership. As the 
attacks' political intentions became more specific, he notes, the operations 
have grown more complex. In addition to targeting Georgian government 
and media Web sites, Russian hackers brought down the Russian newspaper 
Skandaly.ru, apparently for expressing some pro-Georgian sentiment. "This 
was the first time that they ever attacked an internal and an external target 
as part of the same attack," he says. 

Fighting back is tough. When Russian hackers made a name for themselves 
last year by bringing down the Web site of the Estonian parliament along with 
the sites of banks, ministries and newspapers, Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas 
Paet immediately accused the Kremlin of backing the attacks. But he was 
unable to produce evidence supporting his claims. Putin eventually named a 
suspect, or scapegoat, within his government. As Russian hackers waged a 
similar assault on Georgian sites over the past few weeks, Estonia—one of 
Europe's most wired countries—offered its better-defended servers to host 
many Georgian government Web sites. Lithuania and Poland have stepped 
up as well, prompting some excited bloggers to suggest that this is a digital 
Sarajevo, akin to the events of August 1914, the start of the first Internet world 
war. Certainly that's exaggerated, but the mutual defense going on in 
cyberspace shows that these nations take the Russian threat to their online 
infrastructure seriously. 

Still, the nature of the Internet is such that it is almost impossible to respond 
quickly enough. The government doesn't maintain its own botnets—large 
networks of zombified computers standing ready to attack—but can rent one 

 

28 

 

from a crime network, like the Russian Business Network. Then, through state-
controlled media, the government can inspire waves of nationalists to amplify 
the destructive force. "Everybody with a laptop has the responsibility to attack 
the enemy—and you find out who the enemy is by looking at what the 
government is saying," Woodcock says. 
 
While no one can say who wrote the malware that was used to cause 
Georgian servers to crash, it certainly proliferated on Russian Web sites in a 
user-friendly form. Gary Warner, a cybercrime expert at the University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, says he found "copies of the attack script" posted in 
the reader comments section at the bottom of virtually every story in the 
Russian media that covered the Georgian conflict, complete with instructions 
on how the script could be used to attack a specific list of Web sites. The 
efficiency is enough to make Russia's tanks and planes and ships, however 
deadly, appear downright anachronistic. 

AFP 

4 September 2008 

Experts call for united global action against cyber attacks 

The world has to unite against the growing menace of cyber terrorism, IT 
experts said Thursday, evoking a recent "cyber war" against Georgia as the 
latest example of the threat.  

"The world has finally woken up and understood that cyber security needs a 
global approach and is a very serious matter," Estonian politician Mart Laar 
told a cyber security forum in the Estonian capital Tallinn.  

Estonia had to deal with attacks on government websites blamed on Russian 
hackers in the spring of 2007.  

Official Georgian websites suffered a similar cyber offensive last month in the 
wake of Russia's military offensive on Georgian soil. Estonia was among 
several states that stepped in to host hacked Georgian websites.  

"The cyber war against Georgia in August demonstrated how it has become 
part of the real war on the ground and we must act," Laar added.  

According to Laar, cyber attacks against the Georgian websites came a day 
ahead of Russia's August 8 military action in the country, a move roundly 
condemned in the West.  

Robert Kramer, vice-president of public policy for CompTIA, the Computing 
Technology Industry Association uniting the world's top IT firms, underscored 
that global cyber security starts at home with the average Internet user.  

"The weakest link in cyber space is the human being behind the computer 
with not enough awareness and skills on IT security matters," Kramer told the 
forum.  

 

29 

 

Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, an IT expert with Estonia's defence ministry, repeated the 
warning.  

"People everywhere need to understand that your unprotected computer at 
home can be used as a tool in cyber-war," she said.  

Tim Boerner, an IT security expert with the US Secret Service, said experts 
noted increased attacks on Georgian web sites weeks before the first bombs 
fell on Georgia.  

"Over one million computers worldwide were used during the cyber attacks 
against Estonia in spring 2007," he added.  

An ex-Soviet republic that broke free from Moscow in 1991, the tiny Baltic Sea 
state of Estonia joined the European Union and NATO in 2004.  

It has become a leader in global IT development and has focused heavily on 
cyber security since suffering the wave of cyber attacks in early 2007.  

WASHINGTON POST (blog) 

16 October 2008 

By Brian Krebs 

Russian Hacker Forums Fueled Georgia Cyber Attacks 

An exhaustive inquiry into August's cyber attacks on the former Soviet bloc 
nation of Georgia finds no smoking gun in the hands of the Russian 
government. But experts say evidence suggests that Russian officials did little 
to discourage the online assault, which was coordinated through a Russian 
online forum that appeared to have been prepped with target lists and 
details about Georgian Web site vulnerabilities well before the two countries 
engaged in a brief but deadly ground, sea and air war. 

The findings come from an open source investigation launched byProject 
Grey Goose, a volunteer effort by more than 100 security experts from tech 
giants like Microsoft and Oracle, as well as former members of the Defense 
Intelligence Agency, Lexis-Nexis, theDepartment of Homeland Security and 
defense contractor SAIC, among others. 

The group began its inquiry shortly after the cyber war disabled a large 
number of Georgia government Web sites. Starting with the Russian hacker 
forum Xaker.ru (hacker.ru), investigators found a posting encouraging would-
be cyber militia members to enlist at a private, password-protected online 
forum called StopGeorgia.ru. Grey Goose principal investigator Jeff Carr said 
the administrators of the hacker forum were keenly aware that American 
cyber sleuths were poking around: Within hours after discovering the link to 
the StopGeorgia site, Xaker.ru administrators deleted the link and banned all 
access from U.S.-based Internet addresses. 

 

30 

 

At StopGeorgia.ru, project members unearthed a top-down hierarchy of 
expert hackers who doled out target lists of Georgian government Web sites 
to relative novices, complete with instructions on how to exploit vulnerabilities 
in the sites in order to render them inaccessible. Following a July defacement 
of the Georgian president's Web site that was blamed on Russian hackers, the 
Georgian government blocked Russian Internet users from visiting 
government Web sites. 

But Carr said StopGeorgia administrators also equipped recruits with 
directions on evading those digital roadblocks, by routing their attacks 
through Internet addresses in other Eastern European nations. The level of 
advance preparation and reconnaissance strongly suggests that Russian 
hackers were primed for the assault by officials within the Russian government 
and or military, Carr said. 

"The fact that the StopGeorgia.ru site was up and running within hours of the 
ground assault -- with full target lists already vetted and with a large member 
population -- was evidence that this effort did not just spring up out of 
nowhere," said Carr, speaking at a forum in Tysons Corner, Va., sponsored 
by Palantir Technologies, an In-Q-Tel funded company in Palo Alto, Calif., 
whose data analysis software helped Grey Goose investigators track the 
origins and foot soldiers involved in the cyber attack. "If they were planning 
ahead of the invasion, how did they know the invasion was going to occur? 
The only way they could have known that is if they were told." 

Initially, security experts assumed that the sites were felled via "distributed 
denial of service" (DDoS) attacks, a well-known method of assault that uses 
hundreds or thousands of compromised personal computers to flood a 
targeted site with so much junk traffic that it can no longer accommodate 
legitimate visitors. But investigators soon learned that attackers were 
instructed in the ways of a far more simple but equally effective attack 
strategy capable of throttling a targeted Web site using a single computer. 

Security researcher and Grey Goose investigator Billy Rios said attackers 
disabled the sites using a built-in feature of MySQL, a software suite widely 
used by Web sites to manage back-end databases. The "benchmark" feature 
in MySQL allows site administrators to test the efficiency of database queries, 
but last year hackers posted online instructions for exploiting the benchmark 
feature to inject millions of junk queries into a targeted database, such that 
the Web servers behind the site become so tied up with bogus instructions 
that they effectively cease to function. 

"Not only can a small number of users bring down the back end databases, it 
indicates that there was some form of planning, reconnaissance, and some 
technical sophistication by some of the members," Rios said. "It also indicates 
that all the information from the attacked systems was most likely already 
compromised and pilfered before the injection point was posted." 

While Grey Goose members could find no direct link between Russian 
government officials and the StopGeorgia.ru forum administrators, they claim 
it is unreasonable to conclude that no such connection exists. 

 

31 

 

"The historical record shows clear support by members of the Russian 
government and implied consent in its refusal to intervene or stop the hacker 
attacks," the report states, naming at least three Russian politicians and 
military officials who have previously endorsed coordinated cyber attacks 
against other nations as a show of nationalistic pride. 

Oleg Gordievsky, a former colonel in the Russian KGB who defected to the 
British intelligence wing MI6 in 1985, spoke in 1998 at an international 
conference on crime and discussed how Russian hackers convicted of cyber 
crime are sometimes offered an alternative to prison -- working for the FSB" 
(the federal security service of the Russian Federation and a successor to the 
KGB). 

According to a cyber warfare analysis by researchers at Dartmouth College, 
Moscow has a track record of offensive hacking into Chechen Web sites. The 
researchers provide this account of incidents in 2002, when Russian hackers 
used cyber warfare in to supplement the ongoing military conflict with 
Chechnya. 

"In 2002, Chechen rebels claimed that two of their Web sites, kavkaz.org and 
chechenpress.com, crashed under hack attacks by the Russian FSB security 
service. The website crashes were reportedly timed to occur concurrently or 
shortly after Russian Special Forces troops stormed the Moscow Theater in 
which the rebels had taken hostages. "On October 26 ... our Web Site 
kavkaz.org was attacked by a group of hackers," said a spokesman for the 
Chechen rebel site run by Movladi Udugov. Following the attack on the site, 
which is based in the United States, Udugov said that he was "amazed Russia's 
special services can operate so freely on U.S. territory." The attacks on one 
site, chechenpress.com, fell under the category of brute-force denial of 
service (DoS) attacks, while on the other site, kavkaz.org, the attacks 
appeared much more sophisticated. 

According to Chechen sources, the Web site was hijacked by hackers from 
the FSB. The FSB hackers reportedly accomplished this by changing the 
domain registration of the site and then eliminating the data for the site from 
the hosting server. Upon learning of these attacks, the rebels moved the 
information on the sites to kavkazcenter.com. However, that site was 
attacked just a week later, also apparently the work of FSB hackers. 

 

In July, Russian hackers were blamed for a similar assault on Lithuanian 
government Web sites. In Security Fix's account of that attack, I posted a 
copy of a congratulatory letter sent to nationalist Russian hackers by Nikolai 
Kuryanovich, a former member of the Russian Duma. The missive is dated 
March 2006, and addresses the hacker group Slavic Union after the group 
had just completed a series of successful attacks against Israeli Web sites. 

"In the very near future many conflicts will not take place on the open field of 
battle, but rather in spaces on the Internet, fought with the aid of information 
soldiers, that is hackers," Kuryanovich wrote. "This means that a small force of 

 

32 

 

hackers is stronger than the multi-thousand force of the current armed 
forces." 

The Grey Goose report concludes that the journeyman-apprentice 
relationship observed in the StopGeorgia forum will continue to be the 
training model used by nationalistic Russian hackers, and that those hackers 
are actively engaged in finding more efficient ways to disable networks. 

In the meantime, Carr said, the Russian government will continue to deny any 
involvement in any nation-level cyber attacks. 

"The Russian government has adopted this hands-off and satisfying position of 
deniability while enjoying the rewards achieved by the Russian hacker 
community," Carr said. 

 

 

 

 

 

33 

