Exclusive: Operation Shady rat—
Unprecedented Cyber-espionage 
Campaign and Intellectual-Property 
Bonanza

For at least five years, a high-level hacking campaign—
dubbed Operation Shady rat—has infiltrated the computer 
systems of national governments, global corporations, 
nonprofits, and other organizations, with more than 70 
victims in 14 countries. Lifted from these highly secure 
servers, among other sensitive property: countless 
government secrets, e-mail archives, legal contracts, and 
design schematics. Here, Vanity Fair’s Michael Joseph 
Gross breaks the news of Operation Shady rat’s existence—
and speaks to the McAfee cyber-security expert who 
discovered it. 

Photographs by Molly Riley/Reuters/Landov (Hillary) and Paul Sakuma/A.P. 
Images (Google); illustration by Brad Holland (center).

When the history of 2011 is written, it may well be remembered as the 
Year of the Hack.

Long before the saga of News of the World phone hacking began, 
stories of computer breaches were breaking almost every week. In 
recent months, Sony, Fox, the British National Health Service, and the 
Web sites of PBS, the U.S. Senate, and the C.I.A., among others, have 
all fallen victim to highly publicized cyber-attacks. Many of the 
breaches have been attributed to the groups Anonymous and LulzSec. 
Dmitri Alperovitch, vice president of threat research at the cyber-
security firm McAfee, says that for him, “it’s been really hard to watch 
the news of this Anonymous and LulzSec stuff, because most of what 
they do, defacing Web sites and running denial-of-service attacks, is 
not serious. It’s really just nuisance.”

“Just nuisance,” that is, compared with a five-year campaign of hacks 
that Alperovitch discovered and named Operation Shady rat—a 
campaign that continues even now, and is being reported for the first 
time today, by vanityfair.com, and in a lengthier report on the larger 
problem of industrial cyber-espionage in the September issue of 
Vanity Fair. Operation Shady rat ranks with Operation Aurora (the 
attack on Google and many other companies in 2010) as among the 
most significant and potentially damaging acts of cyber-espionage yet 
made public. Operation Shady rat has been stealing valuable 
intellectual property (including government secrets, e-mail archives, 
legal contracts, negotiation plans for business activities, and design 
schematics) from more than 70 public- and private-sector 
organizations in 14 countries. The list of victims, which ranges from 
national governments to global corporations to tiny nonprofits, 
demonstrates with unprecedented clarity the universal scope of cyber-
espionage and the vulnerability of organizations in almost every 
category imaginable. In Washington, where policymakers are 
struggling to chart a strategy for combating cyber-espionage, 
Operation Shady rat is already drawing attention at high levels. Last 
week, Alperovitch provided confidential briefings on Shady rat to 
senior White House officials, executive-branch agencies, and 
congressional-committee staff. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), 
chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, reviewed the 
McAfee report on Shady rat and wrote in an e-mail to Vanity Fair: 
“This is further evidence that we need a strong cyber-defense system 
in this country, and that we need to start applying pressure to other 
countries to make sure they do more to stop cyber hacking emanating 
from their borders.” McAfee says that victims include government 
agencies in the United States, Taiwan, South Korea, Vietnam, and 
Canada, the Olympic committees in three countries, and the 
International Olympic Committee. Rounding out the list of countries 
where Shady rat hacked into computer networks: Japan, Switzerland, 
the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Denmark, Singapore, Hong Kong, 
Germany, and India. The vast majority of victims—49—were U.S.-
based companies, government agencies, and nonprofits. The category 
most heavily targeted was defense contractors—13 in all.

In addition to the International Olympic Committee, the only other 
victims that McAfee has publicly named are the World Anti-doping 
Agency, the United Nations, and ASEAN, the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (whose members are Indonesia, Malaysia, the 
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Burma [Myanmar], 
Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam).

In an e-mail to vanityfair.com, I.O.C. communications director Mark 
Adams wrote, “If proved true, such allegations would be disturbing. 
However, the IOC is transparent in its operations and has no secrets 
that would compromise either our operations or our reputation.” 
WADA spokesman Terence O’Rourke wrote in an e-mail that “WADA 
is constantly alert to the dangers of cyber hacking and maintains a 
vigilant security system on all of its computer programs.” He added 
that “WADA’s Anti-Doping Administration & Management System 
(ADAMS), which is on a completely different server to WADA’s emails, 
has never been compromised and remains a highly-secure system for 
the retention of athlete data.”

A prominent cyber-security expert who was briefed by McAfee on the 
intrusions says that the Associated Press was also a victim. McAfee 
declined to comment on that suggestion. Jack Stokes, A.P. media-
relations manager, said, “We don’t comment on our network security,” 
when I asked if it was true that the A.P. was among Shady rat’s 
victims. Alperovitch believes the hacking was state-sponsored, 
pointing to Shady rat’s targeting of Olympic committees and political 
nonprofits as evidence, and contending that “[t]here’s no economic 
gain” to spying on them. Citing McAfee company policy, he refused to 
speculate on which country was behind Shady rat.

One leading cyber-espionage expert, however, thinks the likely 
culprit’s identity is clear. “All the signs point to China,” says James A. 
Lewis, director and senior fellow of the Technology and Public Policy 
Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, adding, 
“Who else spies on Taiwan?”

Alperovitch first picked up the trail of Shady rat in early 2009, when a 
McAfee client, a U.S. defense contractor, identified suspicious 
programs running on its network. Forensic investigation revealed that 
the defense contractor had been hit by a species of malware that had 
never been seen before: a spear-phishing e-mail containing a link to a 
Web page that, when clicked, automatically loaded a malicious 
program—a remote-access tool, or rat—onto the victim’s computer. 
The rat opened the door for a live intruder to get on the network, 
escalate user privileges, and begin exfiltrating data. After identifying 
the command-and-control server, located in a Western country, that 
operated this piece of malware, McAfee blocked its own clients from 
connecting to that server. Only this March, however, did Alperovitch 
finally discover the logs stored on the attackers’ servers. This allowed 
McAfee to identify the victims by name (using their Internet Protocol 
[I.P.] addresses) and to track the pattern of infections in detail.

The evolution of Shady rat’s activity provides more circumstantial 
evidence of Chinese involvement in the hacks. The operation targeted 
a broad range of public- and private-sector organizations in almost 
every country in Southeast Asia—but none in China. And most of 
Shady rat’s targets are known to be of interest to the People’s 
Republic. In 2006, or perhaps earlier, the intrusions began by 
targeting eight organizations, including South Korean steel and 
construction companies, a South Korean government agency, a U.S. 
Department of Energy laboratory, a U.S. real-estate company, 
international-trade organizations of Western and Asian nations, and 
the ASEAN Secretariat. (According to McAfee’s “Operation Shady rat” 
white paper, “[t]hat last intrusion began in October [2006], a month 
prior to the organization’s annual summit in Singapore, and continued 
for another 10 months.”) In 2007, the activity ramped up to hit 29 
organizations. In addition to those previously targeted, new victims 
included a technology company owned by the Vietnamese 
government, four U.S. defense contractors, a U.S. federal-government 
agency, U.S. state and county government organizations, a computer-
network-security company—and the national Olympic committees of 
two countries in Asia and one in the West, as well as the I.O.C. The 
Olympic organizations, strikingly, were targeted in the months leading 

up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. Shady rat’s activity 
continued to build in 2008, when it infiltrated the networks of 36 
organizations, including the United Nations—and reached a crest of 38 
organizations, including the World Anti-doping Agency, in 2009. 
Since then, the victim numbers have been dropping, but the activity 
continues. Shady rat’s command-and-control server is still operating, 
and some organizations, including the World Anti-doping Agency, 
were still under attack as of last month. (As of Tuesday, according to a 
WADA spokesman, the group was unaware of any breach, but “WADA 
is investigating” McAfee’s discovery.) The longest compromise 
duration—“on and off for 28 months,” according to McAfee’s report—
was one Asian country’s Olympic committee. Many others were 
compromised for two full years. Nine organizations were 
compromised for one month or less. All others were compromised for 
a minimum of one month, potentially allowing for complete access to 
all data on their servers.

Alperovitch says that McAfee is “working closely with U.S.government 
agencies, a variety of them, law enforcement and others,” in hopes of 
eventually shutting down Shady rat’s command-and-control server. 
(He declined to say whether U.S. intelligence agencies are involved in 
the investigation.)

Alperovitch’s diagnosis of the problem raised by Shady rat is 
troubling: “It’s clear from this and other attacks we’ve been witnessing 
that there is an unprecedented transfer of wealth in the form of trade 
secrets and I.P., primarily from Western organizations and companies, 
falling off the truck and disappearing into massive electronic archives. 
What is happening to this data? Is this being accumulated in a giant, 
Indiana Jones–type warehouse? Or is it being used to create new 
products? If it’s the latter, we won’t know for a number of years. But if 
so, it’s not just a problem for these companies, but also for the 
governments of the countries where these companies are located, 
because they’re losing their economic advantage to competitors in 
other parts of the world overnight. That is a national-security problem, 
insofar as it leads to loss of jobs and lost economic growth. That’s a 
serious threat.”

His account of attempting to inform some of Shady rat’s victims may 
be even more troubling. Some victims seem determined to deny 
they’ve been attacked, even when offered empirical proof that a 
smash-and-grab has taken place. Two weeks ago, McAfee sent e-mails 
to officials at four organizations, informing them that their computer 
networks had been compromised. To each, Alperovitch wrote, “We 
would be glad to work with you and provide our assistance … to help 
you determine the impact of the intrusion … or how to prevent this 
type of infiltration in the future.” Three of those organizations—
including one whose breach is ongoing—made no response to 
McAfee’s notifications. Even after McAfee’s second attempt to offer 
information about the breaches to two of the groups, Alperovitch says, 
they expressed no interest in learning details of the intrusions. The 
spokesman for one of those organizations, WADA, told me that he 
considered Alperovitch’s first e-mail to be “spam.” He said, “We are 
conducting our own investigation of the allegations.” When asked why 
WADA chose not to accept McAfee’s offer to provide detailed 
information that could help in that investigation, the spokesman 
answered, “I am under no obligation to answer your questions about 
my investigation.” (Later that day, according to McAfee, WADA did 
request information concerning the attack.)

“We’ve seen this before,” Alperovitch says. “Victims don’t want to 
know they’re victims. I guess that’s just victim psychology: if you don’t 
know about it, it’s not really happening.”

