Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Whitepaper: 
Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 1 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Summary
The following release statement provides a brief summary of 
information related to the “1.php” Group dating from 2008 to 
present.  This Group’s methods tend to be spear-phishing emails 
with malicious PDF attachments or web links to binary executables 
with a Poison Ivy remote administration tool (RAT) payload.  The 
Group’s targeted victims included China/US relations experts, 
Defense entities, and the Geospatial industry.  Zscaler detected 
repeated infections from this Group to a customer related to this 
target list.  The following report summarizes the incident details to 
increase awareness of these attacks in order to increase detection, 
response, and prevention. A much more detailed report has been 
provided to impacted parties, stakeholders, and other trusted 
groups dealing with these incidents. The larger report dives into 
more details about the command and control servers (C&Cs) 
being used by this Group. If you are working on similar research 
would like to collaborate, please contact threatlabz@zscaler.com 
and we will share the detailed report with select entities.

Introduction
Zscaler provides inline security and policy enforcement of web 
and email transactions to include full-content inspection and 
comprehensive transaction logging and analysis. Given that 
many of Zscaler’s customers are large enterprises, it is not 
surprising that some have been the target of so called Advanced 
Persistent Threats (APTs).  During the course of our daily activities 
researching various threats, Zscaler ThreatlabZ often uncovers 
infected hosts that we believe have been compromised via 
attacks that bear the signature of an APT attack. While there is no 
universally accepted definition of APT attacks, for the purposes 
of this paper we will leverage Richard Bejtlich’s blog post on the 
subject1.

 1. http://taosecurity.blogspot.com/2010/01/what-is-apt-and-what-does-it-want.html

“ 

      This Group’s 
methods tend to 
be spear-phishing 
emails with malicious 
PDF attachments or 
web links to binary 
executables with a 
(RAT) payload.

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

“ 

     The Group’s 
targeted victims 
included China/US 
relations experts, 
Defense entities, 
and the Geospatial 
industry.

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 2 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

•   Advanced means the adversary can operate in the full spectrum 

of computer intrusion. They can use the most pedestrian 
publicly available exploit against a well-known vulnerability, or 
they can elevate their game to research new vulnerabilities and 
develop custom exploits, depending on the target’s posture.

•   Persistent means the adversary is formally tasked to 

accomplish a mission. They are not opportunistic intruders. Like 
an intelligence unit they receive directives and work to satisfy 
their masters. Persistent does not necessarily mean they need 
to constantly execute malicious code on victim computers. 
Rather, they maintain the level of interaction needed to execute 
their objectives.

•   Threat means the adversary is not a piece of mindless code. 

This point is crucial. Some people throw around the term 
“threat” with reference to malware. If malware had no human 
attached to it (someone to control the victim, read the stolen 
data, etc.), then most malware would be of little worry (as long 
as it didn’t degrade or deny data). Rather, the adversary here 
is a threat because it is organized and funded and motivated. 
Some people speak of multiple “groups” consisting of 
dedicated “crews” with various missions.

“ 

      …the adversary 
here is a threat 
because it is organized 
and funded and 
motivated. Some 
people speak of 
multiple “groups” 
consisting of 
dedicated “crews” 
with various missions.

“

-Richard Bejtlich, 
TaoSecurity blog

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 3 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Contents

Summary....................................................................................................................... 1

Introduction ................................................................................................................... 1

Section 1: “1.php” Group Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT) ......................................... 5

Section 2:  Customer Infection Behavior ........................................................................ 8

2.1  GET Beacons with Modified XOR Parameters......................................................... 8

2.2  GET Beacons with Data moved to URL path ........................................................... 9

2.3  HTTPS CONNECTs to C&Cs ................................................................................... 9

Section 3:  Indent Inter-Relationships ............................................................................ 10

3.1  Possible Relationship to Other APT Incidents ......................................................... 12

Section 4:  Lessons Learned .......................................................................................... 13

4.1  Conduct logging and analytics within your environment ......................................... 13

4.2  Correlate with other sources .................................................................................. 14

4.3  APTs are not always that ‘Advanced ....................................................................... 14

4.4  APTs are not limited to the United States Government or Defense Industrial Base ... 14

4.5  APT Information Disclosure Remains a Challenge .................................................. 15

Conclusion .................................................................................................................... 16 

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 4 

“

      Once unzipped, 
the malware is a 
Windows executable 
with an SCR extension 
that is identified as a 
Poison Ivy RAT variant.

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Section 1: 
“1.php” Group Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT)
There is a good deal of information in the public domain related to 
“1.php” Group incidents (malware and C&Cs) that can be correlated with 
incident activity that we identify and detail within this report. Intrusion 
activities related to this Group date back at least to 2009, if not earlier 
(there is one sample we found dating back to 2008).  For example, a 
December 7, 2009 blog post by Contagio2  details a malicious phishing 
email regarding United States troop deployment in Afghanistan that 
provides a malicious link to:                                                                                             

File name: WWW.DREAMLIFES.NET/Afghanistan/Afghanistan.zip.      
MD5: 052E62513505A25CCFADF900A052709C

Once unzipped, the malware is a Windows executable with an SCR 
extension that is identified as a Poison Ivy RAT variant. Beyond simple 
phishing attacks with links to malware, the Group also sends spear-
phishing emails with malicious PDF attachments to their targets.  For 
example, the SANS ISC Handler’s Diary drew attention to this Group’s 
phishing campaign exploiting CVE-2009-4324 in January 2010.  A 
screenshot of their story headline is below in: Figure 1 SANS ISC Diary 
Headline related to “1.php” malware campaign3. 

                                           

 

Figure 1 SANS ISC Diary Headline related to “1.php” malware campaign

An example of one of the Poison Ivy RAT payloads used during this 
campaign was:  
File name: SUCHOST.EXE dropped from Request.pdf email attachment    
MD5: B0EECA383A7477EE689EC807B775EBBB

 
 2. http://contagiodump.blogspot.com/2009/12/attack-of-day-poison-ivy-zip-download.html 
 3. http://isc.sans.edu/diary.html?storyid=7867 

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 5 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

This file received commands from: CECON.FLOWER-SHOW.ORG.  
More recently, in July 2011, open-source reports4  exist of Poison Ivy 
usage surrounding the FLOWER-SHOW.ORG domain.  This incident 
exploited PDF vulnerabilities (CVE-2010-2883) in attached spear-phishing 
emails targeting experts on Japan, China, Taiwan / USA relationships.  
See a screenshot of the email in: Figure 2 Spear-phishing email with 
attachment exploiting CVE-2010-2883.

 

Figure 2 Spear-phishing email with attachment exploiting CVE-2010-2883

Once the Poison Ivy payload is installed, it frequently uses a unique 
beaconing pattern to communicate with a C&C server.  To illustrate the 
communication sequence, reference the Joebox sandbox report5  for the 
following file:

File name: Halloween.scr                                                                      
MD5: 5B90896127179F0AD2E6628593CDB60D

  4. http://contagiodump.blogspot.com/2011/07/jul-13-cve-2010-2883-pdf-meeting-agenda.html 

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 6 

“ 

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

      The “1.php?=” 
HTTP GET request for 
the initial C&C check-
in has been identified 
in the majority of past 
incidents involving 
this Group and is 
the reason for the 
informal “1.php” 
name used to 
describe this intrusion 
set.

“

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

This report shows that once infected, the victim:

•  Communicates with C&Cs:

 

 

– FREE.COFFEELAUCH.COM (98.126.69.3)

– FIREHAPPY.SYTES.NET * (98.126.69.3)

•  Via HTTP GET requests to the path: /1.php?id=[data1]&id=[data2]  

&id=[data3]&id=[data4]&id=&id=

 

 

– 2.php, 3.php, and 4.php with id parameters and some with an  
   ending &Done have also been observed

 

– The data parameters are information about the infected host (IP,     
   hostname, MAC address, username, and OS/system version) that              
   have been base64 encoded and then XORed.  XOR keys of 0x3C  
   and 0x3E have been observed.

An asterisk following a domain will designate No-IP6  dynamic DNS 
domains in this report. Dynamic DNS is a service that provides free, 
cheap flexible domain hostname to IP address resolution and No-IP is 
one of the many vendors in this space.

While the malware variants used are generally referred to as Poison 
Ivy variants, there are many cases of them being detected/labeled as a 
generic Trojan, Backdoor, or something else entirely.  For example, in a 
December 2009 malware report Kaspersky lists one variant as Trojan.
Win32.Buzus.cvdu7  and in June 2010 another as Trojan.Win32.Agent.
eevf8 .

Note the “1.php?id=” HTTP GET request for the initial C&C check-in.  
This specific behavior has been identified in the vast majority of past 
incidents involving this Group and is reason for the informal “1.php” 
name used to describe these intrusion sets within the report. More 
information may be garnered from the open-source community, but the 
above should be a sufficient introduction into the tactics, techniques, and 
procedures (TTPs) of this Group.

5. http://support.clean-mx.de/clean-mx/view_joebox.php?md5=9339bb2af4d8c07e63051d0f120530e1&id=679603 
6. http://www.no-ip.com/services/managed_dns/free_dynamic_dns.html 
7. http://www.securelist.com/en/descriptions/7383071/Trojan.Win32.Buzus.cvdu 
8. http://www.securelist.com/en/descriptions/7854148/Trojan.Win32.Agent.eevf

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 7 

“

      Zscaler believes that 
ongoing attacks against 
a sensitive customer are 
directly related to the 
“1.php” Group.

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Section 2: Customer Infection Behavior

Zscaler has observed on-going attacks from June 2010 to present, 
involving a Cleared Defense Contractor. Given the entity involved and the 
characteristics of the traffic observed, Zscaler believes that the attack is 
directly related to the “1.php” Group.  While these attacks appear related 
to the “1.php” Group, the beacons do not bear the previously mentioned 
“1.php” HTTP path.  However, there are many similarities regarding 
these “new” beacons as well as direct relationships regarding previously 
identified domains and IPs used by the “1.php” group.  Presumably, 
these “new” beacon behaviors have been altered to evade any 
signatures designed to detect the previous “1.php” beaconing behavior. 

2.1 GET Beacons with Modified XOR Parameters

One of the first variations that we noticed in the attacks, was that the 
infected hosts sent HTTP GET request check-ins to URLs with the 
general pattern of:

FQDN/css.ashx?sc=[data1]&sp=[data2]&ad=[data3]&dh=[data4]&mr=[d
ata5]&tk= 

The data parameters contained the same victim information as 
mentioned in the “1.php” beacons and were also base64 encoded 
and XORed with a key.  Examples of C&Cs that we observed for this 
particular check-in variant include:

•  HOUSE.SUPERDOGDREAM.COM
•  HOME.ALLMYDEARFRIENDS.COM
•  GOOGLETIME.SERVEIRC.COM *
• 
INFO.SPORTGAMEINFO.COM
•  PEOPLE.ENJOYHOLIDAYS.NET
•  PEARHOST.SERVEHALFLIFE.COM * 
 

(June 2010 – 1st C&C observed in infection)

 

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 8 

“

   …it is currently 
believed that the 
infection point was 
through malicious email 
attachments (as was the
case in many of 
the “1.php” OSINT 
incidents). 

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

2.2 GET Beacons with Data moved to URL path

The next variation that we noticed in attacks, involved the infected hosts 
sending HTTP GET request check-ins to URLs with the general pattern of:

FQDN/[data1]/[data2]/[data3]/[data4]/[data5] 

The data did not appear to be XORed in the same manner as the beacons 
that were previously identified.  However, based on size and number of 
data blocks, it appears that the beacons contain similar information from 
the victims.  Examples of C&Cs used in this infection variant include:

•  SATELLITE.QUICKSEARCHMOVIE.COM
•  WWW.TOYHOPING.COM
•  WORK.FREETHROWLINE.NET
•  SEA.ANIMALFANS.NET
•  WWW.SEARCHSEA.NET
•  LOVE.ANIMALFANS.NET
•  WWW.JOBCALL.ORG

2.3 HTTPS CONNECTs to C&Cs
The latest variations on these attacks are related to customer infections 
beginning on August 3, 2011.  Prior to infection for this incident, as well 
as the previous ones listed, web transaction logs did not provide any 
strong evidence of the infection point – it is currently believed that the 
infection point was through malicious email attachments (as was the 
case in many of the “1.php” OSINT incidents).  Following infection, many 
web transactions were witnessed each hour to the C&C servers via 
HTTPS with the following behaviors:

•  CONNECT on port 443/TCP with 200 HTTP response code
•  HTTP request version 1.0 with HTTP response version 1.1
•  Request size for “keep-alive” beacons were primarily 227 – 228 bytes
•  Response size is most commonly between 969 – 990 bytes
•  Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0 user-agent string (hard-coded into 
  malware, as this is not a standard browser for this customer)

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 9 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Examples of C&Cs used in this infection variant include:

•  WWW.SAVAGECOUNTY.NET
•  LOOK.CAPTAINSABERTOOTH.NET
•  GEOINFO.SERVEHTTP.COM *
•  ROSE.OFFICESKYLINE.COM
•  WWW.CAREERCHALLENGES.NET
•  OFFER.AMERICAMS.N

Section 3: Incident Inter-Relationships
There are a number of domains and IP addresses that have been tied to 
the previously mentioned incidents.  Toward the beginning of the report 
it was stated that we believed all of these incidents to be related.  As 
has already been seen, there are some similarities across the incidents, 
such as same victim organization, similar beaconing data blocks, and 
infection believed to be from malicious email attachments.  However, the 
strongest evidence for their relationship is the fact that related domains 
and IPs are used for C&Cs across these incidents.  

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 10 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

The following Figure 3 - Link-Graph of “1.php” Incident Inter-Relationship 
provides this illustration with only a small snippet of information from 
these incidents:

DOMAIN

HOSTNAME

IP RESOLUTION

firehappy.sytes.net

free

OSINT “1.php” Incidents

coffeelaunch.com

Zhang, Yao hua” Registration details

ICP100.net nmaeservers

2.1 Incidents

dreamlifes.net

seablow.net

superdogdream.com

allmydearfriends.com

sportgameinfo.com

enjoyholidays.net

2.2 Incidents

jobcall.org

2.3 Incidents

geoinfo.servehttp.com

officeskyline.com

captainsabertooth.net

savagecounty.net

Figure 3 - Link-Graph of “1.php” Incident Inter-Relationship

98.126.69.3

178.63.130.197

46.4.209.130

Example of Possible
Victim Names

image

tastfine

house

do:

dream

smart

rose

qinetiq

qnao

look

www

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 11 

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

  There have been a 
number of interesting 
hostnames used with 
“1.php” C&C domains 
that may include other 
potential victims. 
 

“

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

3.1 Possible Relationship to Other APT Incidents
Past experience with APT-style incidents show that hostnames may be 
used to identify the C&C for particular victims of interest.  For example, 
in bakerhughes.thruthere.net9  was a C&C used against Baker Hughes 
in the disclosed Night Dragon10  attacks.  There have been a number 
of interesting hostnames used with “1.php” C&C domains that may 
indicate other potential victims.  These hostnames potentially identify 
victims within the US Government (USG), Defense Industrial Base (DIB), 
and Geospatial industry.  The above link-graph provides one example of 
such an entity that has information about its attacks already disclosed in 
the open-source (QinetiQ).

“QINETIQ” or “QNAO” (QinetiQ North America Operations) for example, 
was an HBGary customer. HBGary supported QinetiQ in detection 
and analysis of on-going targeted attacks against them.  Following the 
Anonymous compromise and leakage of HBGary information, there is 
significant information in the public domain regarding the attacks against 
QinetiQ.  One such example is HBGary’s Incident Response Technical 
Report Supplement for QinetiQ11 . Page 8 of that report, in the “History 
of the strain” section states:

     HBGary has code-named this threat group as “Soysauce”. This group      
     is also known as “Comment Crew” by some, and also as “GIF89a” by       
     some. The choice of codename is completely arbitrary in this context     
     and is simply meant to identify a group of Chinese hackers who have    
     a consistent agenda to target the defense industrial complex.

The name “Comment Crew” and “GIF89a” has been used by 
researchers because of the behavior of this group to enclose C&C 
commands within comments on HTML pages or hidden within image 
files, a technique known as steganography.  These indicators have not 
been witnessed in the attacks previously listed in this report.

Beyond a likely QinetiQ attack relation, there are a number of other 
hostnames that indicate potential attack targets of the “1.php” Group.  
Disclosure of other possible victim names is intentionally omitted from 
this report.

9. http://hbgary.anonleaks.ch/greg_hbgary_com/2505.html 
10. http://www.mcafee.com/in/resources/white-papers/wp-global-energy-cyberattacks-night-dragon.pdf 
11. http://publicintelligence.info/HBGary-QinetiQ.pdf

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 12 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

Section 4: Lessons Learned
A number of lessons can be learned from analyzing incidents within 
this intrusion set.  In the following section, we will discuss analytical 
techniques that enterprises should be adopting, in order to uncover 
similar attacks on their organizations.

4.1 Conduct logging and analytics within your environment
This report shows an evolution of the beaconing behavior from the 
“1.php” Group.  Relying solely on existing signatures of known threats 
would not have triggered detections. By identifying transactions that 
are anomalous, it is possible to detect previous or recurring incidents, 
such as those identified above.  Some of the anomalies, which led to the 
findings in this report, include:

•  HTTP version 1.0 requests with version 1.1 responses

•  Numerous transactions to an unknown / uncategorized domain

 

 

 

 

 

– Some of these transactions were to No-IP dynamic DNS domains

 
 

• Blocking or heavily monitoring the communication to dynamic  
   DNS domains is recommended

– Some of these domains were parked

– Transactions occur during non-standard times (nights / weekends)

– Some transactions (in particular the GET beacons) had a larger    
   request size than response size

•  Microsoft IE 6 user-agent (UA) string usage in an environment that 

does not typically use this UA

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 13 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

4.2 Correlate with other sources
By leveraging data sources such as passive DNS, domain registration 
information, other open-source reports, and other research - it is possible 
to derive information about probable domains and infrastructure used, 
in other attacks by the same group of attackers.  In some cases, this 
information may provide indicators as to the targets or purpose of the 
attacks.  It should also be noted that making too many assumptions or 
believing unverified indicators as fact can lead to misleading information.  
Anyone can set a hostname for a C&C to be “QINETIQ” for example.  
However, by correlating these domains with a group that has been 
identified as being involved in APT attacks, provides a stronger indication 
into their possible target.

4.3 APTs are not always that ‘Advanced’
The above incident reports document (spear-) phishing with a malicious 
PDF attachment, or link to a binary executable with a Poison Ivy RAT 
payload.  While the exploitation used in some of the crafted PDF 
attachments may be considered advanced, for the most part the attack is 
one of social-engineering.  This is nothing new and something that other 
fraudsters / criminals have been leveraging for many years. RSA recently 
wrapped up their APT summit and their first finding concluded that the 
“attack vector [is] shifting from technology to people”.12

4.4 APTs are not limited to the United States Government      
      or Defense Industrial Base
The victim related to this report is neither a Government agency, nor 
an entity that would normally be associated with the Defense Industrial 
Base.  While this report does list USG (United State Government) and 
DIB (Defense Industrial Base) entities as possible victims, there are many 
more commercial entities within the Geospatial and Telecommunication 
industries that appear to have been victims of this Group.  Zscaler has 
noted both foreign and domestic entities that have been victims of other 
APT incidents as well.

12. http://www.rsa.com/summitresults

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

 While the exploitation 
used in some of 
the crafted PDF 
attachments may be 
considered advanced, 
for the most part the 
attack is one of 
social-engineering. 
 

“

Page 14 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

4.5 APT Information Disclosure Remains a Challenge
Incident Information Disclosure is an extension to the heated debate 
around vulnerability information disclosure, and full-disclosure versus 
responsible-disclosure.  Responsible-disclosure is fairly well defined and 
adopted within the vulnerability space, but it is not within the incident 
space.

Here are some arguments for “full disclosure” of incident information:

•  A larger community of awareness (and thus potential detection 
possibility), particularly if there are more organizations impacted

•  A general philosophy that information should be public and that the 

Government or information security community should not have 
secrets kept from the public

•  The public should be made aware of which organizations have been 

victimized so that this information and their response can be weighed 
before trusting them again in the future

Here are some arguments for “responsible disclosure” (the
selective release of information to specific parties) of incident information

•  Public release will cause the attacker to alter their TTPs and possibly 

allow them to make changes to infected systems prior to incident 
response action, making detection more difficult

•  Public release of information can be viewed as attempting to garner 

the spotlight for financial motives versus genuine concerns about 
security

•  There may be law enforcement (or other) investigations that are 

on-going and such a release of information could compromise the 
investigation

Zscaler adheres to the following general principals for incident/
vulnerability disclosure:

•  Customer specific information is disclosed only to the impacted 

customer

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 15 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

•  Customer information will be redacted prior to public disclosure 

or disclosure to other impacted parties, stake-holders, and trusted 
groups within the information security community

•  Public disclosure will provide high-level indicators of compromise 

(such as general network behavior and malicious domains) without 
the release of specifics as to which organizations were impacted and 
is done so when it is believed that such information will benefit others 
in protecting against similar threats

•  Based on feedback/approval from the impacted parties, stake-holders, 

and information security community – additional information may be 
released to the public

Zscaler is willing to share additional details of the incidents discussed 
in this report with trusted groups within the information security 
community to help further their research with regard to similar incidents. 
If you are interested in sharing data on this and other incidents, we 
encourage you to contact us at threatlabz@zscaler.com. 

Conclusion
By interrogating Zscaler’s comprehensive logging repository for 
anomalous activity and indicators of compromise, a Zscaler ThreatLabZ 
researcher identified a high-risk entity victimized by a possible APT attack 
linked to the “1.php” Group.  The conclusion that these attacks should be 
classified as an APT attack are based on the following indicators:

•  The victim enterprise is a high risk target, involved in an industry that 

has regularly been targeted in similar attacks

•  Linkages were identified among several previous incidents from 2010 

to present, showing persistence

•  There remains little to no open-source information on the domains / 

IPs used in the attack, and the linkage to open-source reports shows a 
correlation with past APT incidents

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 16 

“

 The sum of these 
indicators has led to 
our conclusion that 
this was an attack 
performed over a 
significant period of 
time that focused on a 
specific target, given 
the sensitive nature of 
their work. 
 

“

-Zscaler ThreatLabZ

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

•  The RAT payload in question is popular among previously documented 

APT incidents

•  Some No-IP dynamic DNS domains used (while a weak APT indicator, 
dynamic DNS domains have often been used among documented APT 
incidents, such as Aurora and Night Dragon)

•  Hostnames related to victims are used, which is a technique 

previously documented in other APT attacks

•  Nameserver and domain registration information indicates likely 

Chinese origin of attacks

•  VPS/hosting servers used match some of those previously used in 

alleged APT attacks.

The sum of these indicators has led to our conclusion that this was 
an attack performed over a significant period of time that focused on 
a specific target, given the sensitive nature of their work. Based on 
information in the public domain, it appears that these attacks correlate 
with others, previously identified as being the work of the “1.php” 
Group.  Identified targets of these attacks include China/US relations 
experts, USG / DIB entities, and the Geospatial industry. Based on 
the targets, it is our belief that corporate espionage was the goal of 
the attacks.  Open-source reports suggest that these attacks are more 
widespread than many realize and that the same or similar actors 
are compromising numerous organizations in order to steal sensitive 
intellectual property.  As stated within the Lessons Learned section, it 
is important that those concerned about such attacks be vigilant in their 
log collection and analysis to identify anomalies or other indications of 
compromise.

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 17 

Alleged APT Intrusion Set: “1.php” Group

About Zscaler: The Cloud Security Company™
Zscaler enforces business policy, mitigates risk and provides twice 
the functionality at a fraction of the cost of current solutions, utilizing 
a multi-tenant, globally-deployed infrastructure.  Zscaler’s integrated, 
cloud-delivered security services include Web Security, Mobile Security, 
Email Security and DLP. Zscaler services enable organizations to provide 
the right access to the right users, from any place and on any device—all 
while empowering the end-user with a rich Internet experience.  

About Zscaler ThreatLabZ™ 
ThreatLabZ is the global security research team for Zscaler. Leveraging 
an aggregate view of billions of daily web transaction, from millions of 
users across the globe, ThreatLabZ identifies new and emerging threats 
as they occur, and deploys protections across the Zscaler Security Cloud 
in real time to protect customers from advanced threats. 

For more information, visit www.zscaler.com.

© 2011 Zscaler. All Rights Reserved.

Page 18 

