White Paper

Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”
By McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee Labs™
February 10, 2011

3

3

4

7

7

8

9

9

11

11

12

12

13

13

13

18

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Table of Contents
Executive Summary 

Anatomy of a Hack  

Details of the Attack 

Use of remote administration tools 

Detection 

Host Files and Registry Keys 

Anti-virus Alerts 

Network Communications 

Additional Detection Techniques 

McAfee Early Detection 

McAfee Detection 

McAfee Prevention 

Conclusion 

Credits and Acknowledgements 

Appendix A: zwShell — the RAT 

Appendix B: Attribution 

Version 1.4  |  Feb 11, 2011 03:30 PM

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Executive Summary
In 2010, we entered a new decade in the world of cybersecurity. The prior decade was stained with 
immaturity, reactive technical solutions, and a lack of security sophistication that promoted critical 
outbreaks, such as Code Red, Nimda, Blaster, Sasser, SQL Slammer, Conficker, and myDoom—to name a 
few. The security community has evolved and grown smarter about security, safe computing, and system 
hardening but so have our adversaries. This decade is setting up to be the exponential jumping off point. 
The adversaries are rapidly leveraging productized malware toolkits that let them develop more malware 
than in all prior years combined, and they have matured from the prior decade to release the most 
insidious and persistent cyberthreats ever known. 

The Google hacks (“Operation Aurora”), named by McAfee and announced in January 2010, and the 
WikiLeaks document disclosures of 2010 have highlighted the fact that external and internal threats 
are nearly impossible to prevent. Miscreants continue to infiltrate networks and exfiltrate sensitive and 
proprietary data upon which the world’s economies depend every day. When a new attack emerges, 
security vendors cannot stand by idly and watch. We are obligated to share our findings to protect those 
not yet impacted and to repair those who have been. As such, McAfee Foundstone Professional Services 
and McAfee Labs decided to release the following discovery.

Starting in November 2009, coordinated covert and targeted cyberattacks have been conducted against 
global oil, energy, and petrochemical companies. These attacks have involved social engineering, spear-
phishing attacks, exploitation of Microsoft Windows operating systems vulnerabilities, Microsoft Active 
Directory compromises, and the use of remote administration tools (RATs) in targeting and harvesting 
sensitive competitive proprietary operations and project-financing information with regard to oil and gas 
field bids and operations. We have identified the tools, techniques, and network activities used in these 
continuing attacks — which we have dubbed Night Dragon — as originating primarily in China. Through 
coordinated analysis of the related events and tools used, McAfee has determined identifying features 
to assist companies with detection and investigation. While we believe many actors have participated 
in these attacks, we have been able to identify one individual who has provided the crucial C&C 
infrastructure to the attackers. (See Appendix B for more detail on attribution.) 

Anatomy of a Hack 

NIGHT

DRAGON

1

2

3

4

5

Extranet web

servers 

Gained access 
to sensitive 

internal 

compromised 

desktops and 

servers 

Accessed 
additional 

usernames and 

passwords

 Enabled direct 
communication 
from infected 
machines to the 

Internet

Ex(cid:2)ltrated email 

archives and 
other sensitive 

documents

Global Energy
Cyberattacks

Remote
command
execution

Hacker tools 
uploaded to 

servers

Further access 

to sensitive
documents

 Disabled IE 
proxy settings

Executives’
computers

compromised 

Source: McAfee, Inc.
Figure 1. Anatomy of a hack.

3

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

The Night Dragon attacks work by methodical and progressive intrusions into the targeted infrastructure. 
The following basic activities were performed by the Night Dragon operation:

•  Company extranet web servers compromised through SQL-injection techniques, allowing remote 

command execution

•  Commonly available hacker tools are uploaded on compromised web servers, allowing attackers to 
pivot into the company’s intranet and giving them access to sensitive desktops and servers internally

•  Using password cracking and pass-the-hash tools, attackers gain additional usernames and passwords, 

allowing them to obtain further authenticated access to sensitive internal desktops and servers

•  Initially using the company’s compromised web servers as command and control (C&C) servers, the 
attackers discovered that they needed only to disable Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE) proxy settings  
to allow direct communication from infected machines to the Internet 

•  Using the RAT malware, they proceeded to connect to other machines (targeting executives)  

and exfiltrating email archives and other sensitive documents

Details of the Attack
Attackers using several locations in China have leveraged C&C servers on purchased hosted services in 
the United States and compromised servers in the Netherlands to wage attacks against global oil, gas, 
and petrochemical companies, as well as individuals and executives in Kazakhstan, Taiwan, Greece, and 
the United States to acquire proprietary and highly confidential information. The primary operational 
technique used by the attackers comprised a variety of hacker tools, including privately developed and 
customized RAT tools that provided complete remote administration capabilities to the attacker. RATs 
provide functions similar to Citrix or Microsoft Windows Terminal Services, allowing a remote individual  
to completely control the affected system. 

To deploy these tools, attackers first compromised perimeter security controls, through SQL-injection 
exploits of extranet web servers, as well as targeted spear-phishing attacks of mobile worker laptops, 
and compromising corporate VPN accounts to penetrate the targeted company’s defensive architectures 
(DMZs and firewalls) and conduct reconnaissance of targeted companies’ networked computers.

SQL Injection Attacks

(1) Attacker crafts a HTTP GET 
request to inject commands to SQL 
server to gain system-level access

(2) Malware is placed on server and 
used to harvest the local and Active 
Directory account credentials

Web

Internet

SQL

AD

(4) Attacker uses RAT malware to 
conduct additional reconnaissance 
and systems compromises and to 
harvest con„dential data

C&C

(3) Active Directory accounts are 
used to access network computers 
and plant RAT malware that connects 
with remote C&C addresses.

Figure 2. SQL-injection attacks.

4

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Spear-Phishing Attacks

(2) User opens infected email and 
the compromised website is 
accessed; a RAT is downloaded

(1) Attacker sends a spear-phishing 
email containing a link to a 
compromised web server

Web

Internet

Email

(4) Attacker uses RAT malware to 
conduct additional reconnaissance 
and systems compromises and to 
harvest con(cid:1)dential data

C&C

(3) User account information and 
host con(cid:1)guration information is 
sent to a C&C server

Figure 3. Spear-phishing attacks.

Many Chinese hacker websites offer these tools for download, including links to reduh, WebShell, 
ASPXSpy, and many others, plus exploits and zero-day malware.

Figure 4. Rootkin.net.cn offers access to an endless list of hacker tools and exploits.

5

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Figure 5. WebShell and ASPXSpy tools allow an attacker to bypass many firewall 
rules to funnel all control through a company’s web server.

6

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Once the initial system was compromised, the attackers compromised local administrator accounts and 
Active Directory administrator (and administrative users) accounts. The attackers often used common 
Windows utilities, such as SysInternals tools (acquired by Microsoft in 2006) — and other publicly available 
software, including hacking tools developed in China and widely available on Chinese underground 
hacker websites — to establish “backdoors” through reverse proxies and planted Trojans that allowed the 
attackers to bypass network and host security policies and settings. Desktop anti-virus and anti-spyware 
tools were also disabled in some instances — a common technique of targeted attacks.  

Use of remote administration tools
Remote administration tools (RATs) are commonly used administrative tools that allow hackers (and 
administrators) to manage victims’ computers (or managed systems) and completely control their use 
and function. A commonly used RAT in the hacker community is Gh0st and its many variants. RAT 
features often include screen and webcam spying, keystroke logging, mouse control, file/registry,  
and process management, and, of course, remote command shell capability.

McAfee has identified several RATs that have been used to establish a persistent infiltration channel into 
compromised companies. One of the most prevalent RATs is zwShell, which McAfee has seen in the wild 
since the spring of 2010 (compiled on 2010-03-17 08:47:00). Written in the Delphi language, zwShell 
was used by attackers to both build custom variants of the Trojan that they deployed on dozens of 
machines within each victim company, as well as to control compromised machines that would initiate 
beacon connections to it on a custom protocol. 

Attackers used zwShell extensively to generate dozens of unique Trojan variants and to control the 
infected machines and exfiltrate sensitive data directly from them. (See Appendix A for a breakdown  
of the zwShell.)

Once the attackers had complete control of the targeted internal system, they dumped account hashes 
with gsecdump and used the Cain & Abel tool to crack the hashes to leverage them in targeting ever 
more sensitive infrastructures.

Files of interest focused on operational oil and gas field production systems and financial documents 
related to field exploration and bidding that were later copied from the compromised hosts or via 
extranet servers. In some cases, the files were copied to and downloaded from company web servers  
by the attackers. In certain cases, the attackers collected data from SCADA systems.

Detection
The methods and tools used in these attacks are relatively unsophisticated, as they simply appear to 
be standard host administration techniques, using standard administrative credentials. This is largely 
why they are able to evade detection by standard security software and network policies. Since the 
initial compromises, however, many individual unique signatures have been identified for the Trojan 
and associated tools by security vendors, including McAfee; yet only through recent analysis and 
the discovery of common artifacts and evidence correlation have we been able to determine that a 
dedicated effort has been ongoing for at least two years, and likely as many as four. We can now 
associate the various signatures to these events.

The following artifacts can help to determine whether a company has been compromised:

•  Host files and/or registry keys 
•  Anti-virus alerts 
•  Network communications

7

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Host Files and Registry Keys 

Utility

Description

Command & 
control application

zwShell.exe 

093640a69c8eafbc60343bf9cd1d3ad3

zwShell.exe 

85df6b3e2c1a4c6ce20fc8080e0b53e9

Trojan dropper

A packaged executable customized to each victim that includes the DLL file and configuration settings 
for installing the backdoor on the remote system.

The dropper can be run from any directory and is usually executed with PSEXEC or an RDP session. 
Thus, related Windows Security Event logs provide useful information concerning compromised Active 
Directory accounts. These logs can be reviewed with Windows Event Log Manager or programs, such  
as “Event Log Explorer” or EnCase, which support search capabilities.

When executed, the dropper creates a temporary file that is reflected in Windows update logs  
(KB*.log files in c:\Windows folder). 

This is because the Windows Registry is modified by the dropper to create a “netsvcs” key. Accordingly, 
the date of the backdoor installation can be determined from a search of the KB log files. This temporary 
file is also identified in the backdoor DLL itself. The temporary file is usually some alphanumeric 
combination that includes “gzg” (for example, xgt0gzg); however, it has been seen with generic file 
names (for example, server.exe) as well.

The dropper is deleted when the backdoor is installed, and the temporary file is removed when the 
computer is restarted. If a backdoor has already been configured on the system, the dropper installation 
will fail unless it uses a different configuration.

Trojan backdoor

Dynamic link libraries (DLLs), also appearing under many other names. 

These files have a correlated Windows Registry key that is determined by the dropper when the backdoor 
is installed. The dropper iterates through the Windows netsvcs registry keys and uses the first available 
key, indicating the path and filename of the backdoor in a ServiceDLL register. The backdoor operates as 
a service through a “svchost.exe netsvcs –k” registry setting. The service key can be found under:

HKLM\system\<controlset>\services\

The DLL is a system or hidden file, 19 KB to 23 KB in size and includes an XOR-encoded data section that 
is defined by the C&C application when the dropper is created. It includes the network service identifier, 
registry service key, service description, mutex name, C&C server address, port, and dropper temporary 
file name. The backdoor may operate from any configured TCP port.

This DLL is specified in the ServiceDLL key in the related Windows netsvcs registry entry. The DLL is usually 
found in the %System%\System32 or %System%\SysWow64 directory.

Trojan backdoor 2*

startup.dll 

A6CBA73405C77FEDEAF4722AD7D35D60

Initially configured with the following:

connect.dll 

6E31CCA77255F9CDE228A2DB9E2A3855

Connect.dll creates the temporary file “HostID.DAT,” which is sent to the C&C server, then downloads 
and configures related DLLs including:

•  PluginFile.dll
•  PluginScreen.dll 
•  PluginCmd.dll 
•  PluginKeyboard.dll 
•  PluginProcess.dll 
•  PluginService.dll 
•  PluginRegedit.dll

Thereafter “Startup.dll” operates the service under a Windows Registry key. All communications seen  
so far with this version have been on ports 25 and 80 over TCP but can operate on any determined port. 
The service key is identified in the DLL (which does not include any encrypted data) as:

HKLM\Software\RAT

This DLL is usually found in the %System%\System32 directory; however, it has also been found in other 
locations. The path to the backdoor DLL is indicated in the Windows Registry ServiceDLL key. 

* This DLL uses a different C&C application that may be an earlier version  
  of zwShell, analysis continues.

8

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

The Trojan components are manually copied or delivered through administrative utilities to remote systems. 
They do not include any worm or self-replicating features, nor can the Trojan “infect” other computers. 
Removing the Trojan components is simply a matter of deleting the related files and registry settings.

The Trojan backdoor communicates with the C&C server at the address hard-coded in each DLL. The C&C 
server cannot modify the backdoor once it is installed; related systems must have the Trojan file removed 
before a new backdoor DLL can be installed on the system. Thus, if the C&C server address is changed, 
those servers that have the DLL with previous addresses must be remotely administered by the attacker.

Anti-virus Alerts
Anti-virus patterns are defined according to samples submitted by clients or analysts as they are 
discovered. Some Trojans exhibit characteristics of other types of malware, such as worms or viruses, 
that have the ability to infect other systems. RATs do not typically include such features, and, because 
they are defined with unique configurations for custom purposes, they commonly change faster than 
unique samples can be identified.

Only when an entire RAT toolkit is found can we define an anti-virus pattern that is generic enough 
to detect the RAT regardless of configuration changes. The package necessarily includes the C&C 
application server, the generator utility for creating droppers, related droppers, and backdoors —  
and a sufficient number of each to correlate the toolkit.

As mentioned previously, there have been several unique patterns developed from samples submitted  
to McAfee (as well as to other anti-virus vendors).  

McAfee recommends that companies review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator® 
(McAfee ePO™) software and anti-virus logs for “NightDragon” signature 
detections to identify related alerts since 2007 and then recover and resubmit 
these samples for analysis to investigate the related incidents. McAfee can 
assist with the analysis or provide instructions and tools for internal review.

Network Communications
Network communications are relatively easy to detect because the malware uses a unique host beacon 
and server response protocol. Each communication packet between the compromised host and the C&C 
server is signed with a plain text signature of “hW$.” (or “\x68\x57\x24\x13”) at the byte offset 0x42 
within the TCP packet. 

The backdoor begins its beacon at approximately five-second intervals with an initial packet that may  
be detected with the pattern: “\x01\x50[\x00-\xff]+\x68\x57\x24\x13.” 

9

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

The server acknowledges the beacon with an initial response of “\x01\x60[\x00-\xff]+\x68\x57\x24\x13.”  

The backdoor sends the password to the server in clear text after the server acknowledges the connection. 

While the backdoor and the server have an active connection, the backdoor will send “keep-alive” 
messages that can be detected with: “\x03\x50[\x00-\xff]+\x68\x57\x24\x13.”

10

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

The attackers use “dynamic DNS” Internet name services accounts to relay C&C communications or 
temporarily associate DNS addresses with remote servers. Primary domains that have been used for C&C 
traffic include (all of these have been used frequently by other malware):

•  [xxxx].is-a-chef.com
•  [xxxx].thruhere.net
•  [xxxx].office-on-the.net
•  [xxxx].selfip.com

Note: The above hostnames (is-a-chef.com<http://is-a-chef.com>, thruhere.net<http://thruhere.net>, office-
on-the.net<http://office-on-the.net>, selfip.com<http://selfip.com>) by themselves do not indicate malicious 
activity and there are plenty of legitimate subdomains that may use those hostnames. Communication to 
those hostnames should be carefully scrutinized but not necessarily raise alarm on its own

Company extranet servers have also been used as either unique or secondary/redundant C&C servers.  
In some instances, the attackers have (probably mistakenly) used droppers configured to compromise 
one company’s computers — in another company’s computers.

McAfee recommends that companies configure intrusion detection system 
(IDS) rules to detect the noted signatures (or employ the user-defined signature 
[UDS] “BACKDOOR: NightDragon Communication Detected” in McAfee 
Network Security Platform) and monitor DNS for outbound communications to 
dynamic DNS addresses resolving to or pathed back as suballocated to servers 
in China, where the company’s name or common abbreviation forms the first 
part of the address. This may be difficult. However, if samples of the backdoor 
DLLs are found, DNS monitoring can help to identify other compromised hosts 
in the company network. McAfee also recommends that companies review 
web or IDS logs for file transfers to addresses registered in China. McAfee can 
assist with the analysis or provide instructions and tools for internal review.

Additional Detection Techniques
The backdoor beacons with its corresponding C&C server as long as the related address is active. If the 
address is abandoned or unreachable, the backdoor stops beaconing after some undetermined interval. 
When a compromised computer is restarted, however, the beaconing begins again because it is registered 
as a service in the Windows Registry. Anti-virus may or may not detect the Trojan unless it is beaconing or  
a full file system scan is performed.

McAfee Early Detection
Customers can deploy a number of McAfee products to help protect information systems from the Night 
Dragon attack:

•  McAfee Vulnerability Manager: Using agentless discovery and vulnerability checking to assess systems 

on your network, McAfee Vulnerability Manager is an enterprise-class vulnerability management  
system that will detect infected Night Dragon systems as well as the security weaknesses in systems 
that have been compromised. The “wham-apt-nightdragon-detected-v7.fasl3” script will detect this 
threat remotely on systems. 

11

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

•  McAfee Policy Auditor: Using agent-based configuration audit checks to determine the most secure 

configuration of a system, McAfee Policy Auditor software detects the security weaknesses in the 
systems that have been compromised

•  McAfee Risk Advisory (MRA): Properly deployed, McAfee Risk Advisor would have allowed administrators 

to see the misconfigurations and gap in security coverage that facilitated Night Dragon’s exploitation

McAfee Detection
Night Dragon also displays a pattern of correlated activities with an assortment of other software tools 
that McAfee can assist companies to identify.   

•  McAfee VirusScan Enterprise: Update your anti-virus .DATs to at least version 6232 and ensure that 

on-demand scans are working properly and perform a full file system virus scan. Review McAfee ePO 
software or anti-virus alerts and network logs for “NightDragon” signature detections to identify 
compromised systems. Please submit any related samples to virus_research@mcafee.com or submit 
on the web at https://www.webimmune.net/default.asp. 

•  McAfee Network Threat Response: McAfee Network Threat Response technology would have detected 

the malicious C&C traffic and would have alerted administrators to the attack early, giving them time 
to react and prevent future damage

Administrators can also download the following free tools from McAfee:

•  McAfee “Night Dragon Vulnerability Scanner” based on McAfee Vulnerability Manager technology to 

scan their networks for the presence of malware

•  McAfee Labs Stinger

McAfee Prevention
For complete prevention of this and most other attacks involving advanced persistent threats (APTs), 
customers can deploy application whitelisting and change/configuration control software on their critical 
servers. These technologies completely prevent the unauthorized running of DLLs/EXEs as well as the 
modification of registry keys, services, and more involved in all of today’s APT and zero-day attacks.

•  McAfee Application Control: McAfee Application Control software stops Night Dragon by not allowing 
the dropper files from executing (even as administrator on Windows), thereby preventing downloads of 
additional malware and the setup of C&C channels that allowing RAT control and theft of sensitive files 

•  McAfee Configuration Control: McAfee Configuration Control software allows you to disallow 

any configuration changes to your systems, protecting them from being modified without explicit 
permission (even with administrative access)

•  McAfee Database Activity Monitoring: delivers complete database protection including 0-day attacks 

and web born attacks such as those seen with SQL injection in Night Dragon.

•  McAfee Network Security Platform: blocks malicious network activity such as APT command and 

control traffic.

•  McAfee Enterprise Firewall: Properly installed and configured at the border and inside your organization, 

McAfee Firewall would have prevented the Night Dragon operation from penetrating so deeply into 
the affected organizations and would have blocked C&C communication from the RAT

•  McAfee Web Gateway: Properly installed and configured, McAfee Web Gateway would have prevented 

the Night Dragon operation from using their RATs, requiring them to proxy-enable their RATs or use 
alternative proxy-enabled RATs

•  McAfee Endpoint Encryption: Properly installed and configured, McAfee Endpoint Encryption software 

reduces the impact of the Night Dragon attack by restricting access to the core targeted assets

12

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

•  McAfee Data Loss Protection: Properly installed and configured, McAfee Network DLP and/or McAfee 

Host DLP solutions allow you to prevent and detect the extraction of sensitive information from outside 
the company

•  McAfee Host Intrusion Prevention 8.0: McAfee Host Intrusion Prevention 8.0 software has introduced 
a new “TrustedSource” APT detection feature that allows enterprises to correlate endpoint executable 
activity with the network C&C communication to detect and prevent RAT communications and data 
exfiltration activity

•  McAfee VirusScan® Enterprise: In addition to detecting associated malware and RATs on the endpoint, 

customers can also leverage access protection features in McAfee VirusScan Enterprise to prevent 
(and alert on) the creation of Night Dragon-related files and folder structures. Other built-in features 
such infection tracing and McAfee Global Threat Intelligence™ can assist with the identification and 
quarantining or removal of new and unknown associated malware and RATs.

If you have discovered the presence of Night Dragon in your environment and would like incident-response  
or forensics assistance to respond and repair, please contact Foundstone Professional Services on 
incidentresponse@foundstone.com or submit any related samples to Virus_Research@avertlabs.com 
or on the web at McAfee Labs WebImmune.

Conclusion
Well-coordinated, targeted attacks such as Night Dragon, orchestrated by a growing group of malicious 
attackers committed to their targets, are rapidly on the rise. These targets have now moved beyond the 
defense industrial base, government, and military computers to include global corporate and commercial 
targets. While Night Dragon attacks focused specifically on the energy sector, the tools and techniques  
of this kind can be highly successful when targeting any industry. Our experience has shown that many 
other industries are currently vulnerable and are under continuous and persistent cyberespionage 
attacks of this type. More and more, these attacks focus not on using and abusing machines within the 
organizations being compromised, but rather on the theft of specific data and intellectual property. It is  
vital that organizations work proactively toward protecting the heart of their value: intellectual property. 
Enterprises need to take action to discover these assets in their environments, assess their configurations 
for vulnerabilities, and protect them from misuse and attack.

For additional research and information, review Hacking Exposed: Network Secret and Solutions — 6th 
Edition (Osborne McGraw-Hill). You can also visit http://www.hackingexposed.com for information on 
advanced hacker techniques and to sign up for “Hacking Exposed” monthly webinars. 

Credits and Acknowledgements
The preceding white paper was a collaborative effort among numerous people and entities including 
McAfee Foundstone Professional Services consultants, McAfee Labs, McAfee employees, executives, and 
researchers, HBGary and National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance (NCFTA). Significant contributors 
include Shane Shook, Dmitri Alperovitch, Stuart McClure, Georg Wicherski, Greg Hoglund, Shawn Bracken,  
Ryan Permeh, Vitaly Zaytsev, Mark Gilbert, Mike Spohn, George Kurtz, and Adam Meyers.

13

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Appendix A: zwShell — the RAT
Below is a walk-through of the capabilities of zwShell and a demonstration of how the attackers used 
zwShell as a command and control server to exfiltrate data from within the targeted companies.

1.  When zwShell is launched, it presents a fake crash error to the user and contains a hidden text entry 

field below the “Write of address 00000000. Process stopped” line. By entering the password in 
the hidden dialog box above the “ok” button to launch the application requires typing a special 
password, “zw.china.” Without that password, the tool will not start. This obfuscation method is 
likely used to confuse investigators about the true purpose of this executable. 

2.  Once the error is bypassed, and zwShell is launched, it allows the attacker to create a custom Trojan by 
selecting the Server menu or to launch the C&C server by clicking Start and entering the port to listen for 
traffic with the password used by the backdoor DLLs. Once started, the application will begin listening 
for incoming compromised client connections and display them inside the grid. The attacker can launch 
as many instances of the zwShell application as required — as long as each listens to a different port or 
password. In this manner, multiple “networks” of compromised computers can be monitored.

3.  The attacker can also click on the Options menu to configure the C&C server settings. Those settings 

include selection of the listening port, the password that will encrypt the C&C traffic (which must 
match the password selected at the time of the Trojan generation), the ability to specify custom sound  
notifications for when infected machines connect and disconnect from the C&C server, and the ability  
to increase the color depth used for remote access to the machine, as well as an optional capability 
to allow resumes of interrupted file transfers from the client machine. The attacker can stop the 
listener and start with new options to monitor or connect with other compromised computers. 

14

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

4.  The attacker can specify the password (which must match the password set up for the server in Step 3),  
the name and path to the RAT DLL that will be injected into the svchost.exe Windows services process,  
the service and mutex names, and service displayed name and description. The attacker can also specify  
up to two C&C hostnames or IP address, port address, and dropper EXE process icon. Once the  
Create button is clicked, zwShell will generate a custom EXE dropper process which, when executed, 
will delete itself and extract a RAT DLL that will be launched as a persistent Windows service. The 
RAT will then immediately send a beacon on the configured port to the designated C&C server and 
wait for instructions. 

5.  The dropper will be copied over network shares to the compromised computer and remotely execute 

with psexec or via Windows Terminal Services (RDP). In some cases, an “AT.job” or “SchTasks” entry  
will be used to execute the dropper over the network on the compromised computer. When 
executed, the dropper will create a temporary file and extract a RAT DLL that will be launched as a 
persistent Windows service. The RAT will then immediately send a beacon on the configured port to 
the designated C&C server and wait for instructions. The dropper will automatically delete itself after 
the backdoor service is created, and the temporary file will be deleted when the system is rebooted. 
An entry will be created in the Windows Update logs (KB****.log) in the C:\Windows directory with 
the date and time and path+name of the temporary file.

15

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

6.  When a client is executed, it connects to the attacker’s zwShell interface, along with its IP address,  
PC name, name of the logged-in user, and information about the operating system (OS) version of 
the machine, including the major patch levels.

7.  The attacker in charge of the C&C server can establish full remote control of the connected machine 
and can browse the file system, launch command-line shells, manipulate the registry, view the remote  
desktop, and uninstall the Trojan from the client.

8.  Browsing the client file system is a fully interactive process and has a familiar user interface similar  

to Windows Explorer. Individual files and folders can be deleted, renamed, copied, downloaded,  
and uploaded to the remote machine.

16

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

9.  A remote command-line shell can be launched to execute commands directly on the remote machine.  

When the attacker uses this function, a copy of CMD.EXE is copied to the compromised system in a 
Windows %Temp% directory with the filename svchost.exe. This copy is an unmodified version of 
the Microsoft Windows command shell executable.

10. The Registry can also be viewed and edited in a user interface similar to the Windows Registry editor.

17

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Appendix B: Attribution
IMPORTANT: McAfee has no direct evidence to name the originators of these attacks but rather has 
provided circumstantial evidence. 

While we believe many actors have participated in these attacks, we have been able to identify one 
individual who has provided the crucial C&C infrastructure to the attackers — this individual is based in  
Heze City, Shandong Province, China. Although we don’t believe this individual is the mastermind behind  
these attacks, it is likely this person is aware or has information that can help identify at least some  
of the individuals, groups, or organizations responsible for these intrusions. 

Figure 6. Shandong Province, China

The individual runs a company that, according to the company’s advertisements, provides ”Hosted 
Servers in the U.S. with no records kept” for as little as 68 RMB (US$10) per year for 100 MB of space. 
The company’s U.S.-based leased servers have been used to host the zwShell C&C application that 
controlled machines across the victim companies.

Beyond the connection to the hosting services reseller operation, there is other evidence indicating 
that the attackers were of Chinese origin. Beyond the curious use of the “zw.china” password that 
unlocks the operation of the zwShell C&C Trojan, McAfee has determined that all of the identified data 
exfiltration activity occurred from Beijing-based IP addresses and operated inside the victim companies 
weekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Beijing time, which also suggests that the involved individuals 
were “company men” working on a regular job, rather than freelance or unprofessional hackers. In 
addition, the attackers employed hacking tools of Chinese origin and that are prevalent on Chinese 
underground hacking forums. These included Hookmsgina and WinlogonHack, tools that intercept 
Windows logon requests and hijack usernames and passwords.

18

White Paper 

Global Energy Cyberattacks: “Night Dragon”

Figure 7. Instructions on the use of WinlogonHack tool by its Chinese developers.

On the compromised web server, they also deployed ASPXSpy, a web-based remote administration tool, 
also of Chinese origin.

Figure 8. Parts of the ASPXSpy code with attribution to the Chinese developer.

There is nothing to suggest that the developers of these tools had any direct connection to these 
intrusions, as the tools are widely available on the Chinese web forums and tend to be used extensively 
by Chinese hacker groups. Although it is possible that all of these indicators are an elaborate red-herring 
operation designed to pin the blame for the attacks on Chinese hackers, we believe this to be highly 
unlikely. Further, it is unclear who would have the motivation to go to these extraordinary lengths 
to place the blame for these attacks on someone else. We have strong evidence suggesting that the 
attackers were based in China.

McAfee, Inc. 
2821 Mission College Boulevard 
Santa Clara, CA 95054 
888 847 8766 
www.mcafee.com

The information in this document is provided only for educational purposes and for the convenience of McAfee customers. The information 
contained herein is subject to change without notice, and is provided “as is,” without guarantee or warranty as to the accuracy or applicability 
of the information to any specific situation or circumstance.
McAfee, the McAfee logo, McAfee Labs, McAfee Foundstone, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, McAfee ePO, McAfee Global Threat Intelligence, 
and McAfee VirusScan Enterprise are registered trademarks or trademarks of McAfee or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. 
Other marks and brands may be claimed as the property of others. Copyright © 2011 McAfee 
21401wp_night-dragon_0211

