CASE STUDY: OPERATION AURORA  

 

 
Triumfant has performed extensive research into the behaviors of the recent attack directed at Google called Operation 
Aurora.  This case study provides a detailed description of how Triumfant would detect, analyze and remediate the attack 
on an endpoint machine running the Triumfant agent.  
 
In the interest of full disclosure, Triumfant had no direct interaction with the attack either directly on Triumfant’s own 
endpoints or indirectly through a Triumfant customer.  The analysis is based on detailed information collected through a 
variety of publically available research performed by reliable sources that performed hands-on analysis of the attack.  
Based on this research, Triumfant is fully confident that our software would have detected the attack and built a 
remediation that would have restored the machine to its pre-attack condition.   
 
The Operation Aurora attack falls squarely into one of the classes of attacks that Triumfant excels at detecting: targeted 
attacks engineered to evade traditional network and endpoint protections.  While the actual attack vector used was not 
exceptionally sophisticated, the attack was created to have a digital signature that would not be detected by antivirus 
tools.  The attack also took steps to protect and obscure itself from detection once it infected a machine.  The case study 
steps through the process in four parts: initial detection, diagnosis, the assimilation of data about the attack into the 
Triumfant knowledge base, and remediation of the affected machine. 

Detection 

The malicious code used by Operation Aurora created several service keys during three specific steps: execution of the 
dropper, the first stage of installation, and the second stage of installation.  Some of these keys are subsequently deleted 
but at least one was persistent.  The appearance of one or more of these keys would be interpreted as a marker of 
potential malicious activity by the Triumfant real-time malware scan and would therefore trigger the detection process.i
 

The first step in the detection process would be a request by the agent to the server requesting permission for the agent 
to execute a full scan of the machine. The purpose of this scan is to capture all of the changes to that machine since the 
previous scan results were processed as part of the normal agent/server interaction that occurs every 24 hours. The 
Triumfant server would respond within seconds, authorizing the scan and throttling up the agent to complete the scan as 
rapidly as possible, collecting all 200,000 plus attributes in under a minute.  The resulting scan would captures the state 
of the machine immediately after infection, providing the raw material for diagnosis so the analytics could verify the 
machine is under attack and identify all of the primary and secondary artifacts of the attack. 

Diagnosis 

The Triumfant server would receive the full scan, recognize that it was executed as a result of suspicious behavior, and 
immediately compare it to the adaptive reference model (the unique context built by our patented analytics).  The result 
of this comparison would be a set of anomalous files and registry keys.  The fact that the files and keys associated with 
Operation Aurora have random names would guarantee that they would be perceived as anomalous despite the fact that 
humans might tend to confuse them with legitimate Windows services.  Further analysis would then be applied to the 
anomaly set to identify important characteristics and functional impacts.  In this case the salient characteristics are an 
anomalous service and a number of anomalous system32 files.   

The discovery of an anomalous service would cause the Triumfant server to build a probe to be sent to the agent for 
execution to gather more data to complete the analysis.  In this case, the probe would contain a list of all of the 
anomalous attributes found by the server during its analysis.  Such probes leverage a series of correlation functions 
designed to partition the anomalous attributes associated with an attack into related groups.  For Operation Aurora 
these correlation functions would group all of the anomalous attributes and then perform a risk assessment on this 
group.  In this specific case, this analysis would find that the malicious attack is communicating over the internet.   

The cumulative results of the correlation and risk assessment would then be sent back to the Triumfant server. This new 
information is then processed and classified as an “Anomalous Application” with a complete analysis of the changes that 
composed the attack.  This data would show the full set of changes associated with the attack such as files, registry keys, 

 

2010 – Triumfant, Incorporated 

CASE STUDY: OPERATION AURORA  

 

 
processes, ports, services, and event logs that were added, changed, or deleted as part of the attack. The data about the 
attacks would be posted at the console and the Triumfant server would alert the appropriate personnel based on the 
established reporting and alert protocols.  Personnel could then access the correlated attack information and the 
corresponding risk assessment who could then take appropriate actions including the ability to save the analysis to 
readily share the data with CIRT and forensics teams. 

Knowledge Base 

Triumfant has the ability to save the analysis from any anomalous activity and leverage that data to create what 
Triumfant calls a Recognition Filter that becomes a permanent part of the knowledge base contained in the adaptive 
reference model.  These Recognition Filters have a number of benefits.  First, they provide a very precise mechanism for 
storing and sharing knowledge about an incident.  Second, they allow the system to search for any other instances of 
that particular condition on other machines.  Third, they enable the operator to pre-authorize automatic responses - 
such as automatic remediation - should that incident be detected in the future. 

In the case of Operation Aurora, an analyst could save the analysis and build a filter specifically about this attack.  Once 
built, the filter could be used to check other endpoint machines (the entire population or specified groups) for 
infection. This mechanism uses acquired knowledge to address broad attacks before they have the chance to spread 
beyond their initial penetration.  These filters are also more resilient than digital signatures because they use wildcarding 
to continue to detect the attack even as it morphs its basic signature over time to avoid traditional signature based tools.  

Remediation 

The ability to identify and correlate all of the changes associated with any attack provides a depth of information that 
enables Triumfant to build a contextual and situational remediation that surgically and reliably removes the components 
of that attack without reimaging the machine. This remediation is built to exactly match the attributes of the anomalous 
application, in this case Operation Aurora, on an attribute by attribute basis.   

For Operation Aurora, Triumfant would construct a remediation to address all of the changes associated with the attack, 
restoring the altered attributes to their pre-attack condition.  This includes the changes Aurora makes to affected 
machine’s configuration settings to either execute or hide itself. The files added to the machine would be deleted, and 
any files deleted or corrupted would be remediated using Triumfant’s patent pending donor technology.ii
 

Summary 

Operation Aurora is illustrative of the targeted and well engineered attacks that characterize the evolving threats 
businesses and government agencies face daily.  Based on the available data regarding Operation Aurora, Triumfant can 
say with confidence that Resolution Manager would have detected the attack, identified changes associated with the 
primary and collateral damage done to the affected machines, and used that data to build a remediation to address the 
specific elements of the attack.  Within five minutes of the infection Triumfant would have analyzed the attack and 
created a remediation to return the machine to its pre-attack condition pending confirmation by the administrator.   This 
ability to detect and remediate the attacks that evade traditional endpoint protections demonstrates the unique 
capabilities of Triumfant’s technology. 

                                                      
i Triumfant uses two continuous scan cycles.  One is a scan for markers of malicious activity that runs approximately 
every thirty seconds.  The second is a continuous scan of every attribute on the machine that identifies and collects 
changes to those attributes and communicates them to the server on a 24 hour reporting cycle.  

ii Triumfant leverages the knowledge contained in the adaptive reference model to find another machine that has the 
proper version of corrupted or missing files – validated to the specific release number and MD5 hash - and uses that 
machine as a donor to repair the affected machine.  This technology is patent pending.  

 

2010 – Triumfant, Incorporated 

